=== PAGE 15 ===

 
Introduction
1
 Introduction
In 1971, the television debut of All in the Family tickled an American public who
y
was also celebrating the successful moon landing, and safe return home, of two
Apollo space missions. In the same year, much smaller audiences took note of Igor 
Stravinsky’s death and the birth of Calvin Broadus Jr. (aka Snoop Dogg/Lion); a 
marketing phenomenon was born in Seattle with the opening of the first Star-
bucks; Idi Amin ousted Milton Obote to become the dictator of Uganda; and in the
new academic field of composition and rhetoric, a movement to elevate the status 
of process began to stir. Meanwhile, in October of that year in a meeting room of 
San Francisco’s less-than-swank Jack Tar Hotel, Werner Erhard assembled some
two hundred participants for the debut of the est Training. Given this timing for 
the emergence of the est Training, media at the time characterized it as a part of 
t
the human potential movement, but scholar Jonathan Moreno has more recently 
called est “the most important cultural event after the human potential movement
itself seemed exhausted” (Impromptu Man 247).
Infamous for its rigorous ground rules and confrontational methods—
elements Erhard says were necessary in the liberated, let-it-all-hang-out, “new 
age” ethos of the time—the est Training (Latin for
t
it is, and an acronym for Erhard 
Seminars Training) grew in popularity throughout the 1970s because of the im-
pressive benefits participants reported having received, including better relation-
ships and a greater sense of “aliveness.” Trainees experienced being “at cause” 
in the matter of their lives, and having a new sense that their lives could make a
difference in the world. They felt “free to be.” This new sense of responsibility and 
freedom allowed for breakthroughs in communicating with others, and enabled
them to produce results, both personal and professional, that they would previ-
ously have seen as unlikely.
At the source of this educational enterprise was an experience Erhard had 
undergone earlier that year, although he later said it was “not in itself so much an 
experience, as a shift in the context in which he held all process, including experi-
ence” (Bartley 168). In some traditions, such an event might be referred to as an
individual’s having undergone enlightenment; Erhard has called it a transformation.
He was, at this point in his life, a highly successful sales manager and trainer for a 
large publishing company. Further, he had devoted much of the previous decade to 
the rigorous exploration of various systems of enlightenment and personal devel-
opment, from Zen (the essential one, he says) to the Dale Carnegie course and Mind
Dynamics. But one morning in 1971, as he was driving across the Golden Gate Bridge
en route to his office, he suddenly realized that he knew nothing. As he related the
incident to his biographer, William Bartley:
All the things I had ever heard, and read, and all those hours 
of practice, suddenly fell into place. It was so stupidly,
blindingly simple that I could not believe it. I saw that there
were no hidden meanings, that everything was just the 
way that it is, and that I was already all right. . . . I realized 
that I was not my emotions or thoughts. I was not my 
ideas, my intellect, my perceptions, my beliefs. . . . I was 
simply the space, the creator, the source of all that stuff. I
experienced Self as Self in a direct, unmediated way. I didn’t 
just experience Self; I became Self. Suddenly I held all the 
information, the content, in my life in a new way, from a new
mode, a new context. . . .  I am I am. (Bartley 167–168)
In other words, an experience of being. The insight Erhard derived from that ex-
perience subsequently became what thousands of est trainees would spend two
t
weekends and several hundred dollars to “get” for themselves. 
Discussing his work later, Erhard addressed the challenge he had confronted in
attempting to communicate what seemed essentially incommunicable: “You can’t
do this in the ordinary sense of communication: I can’t have it and give it to you. But
I can communicate in a way so that you get an opportunity to realize that you have 
it yourself already. Essentially, this is what the est Training was developed to do. It
t
provides a setting in which this kind of sharing takes place” (Bartley 169).
From the outset, the language of est was central to both its pedagogical process 
and its public image. A fundamental tenet of the est Training, as well as its succes-
t
sor program, The Forum, has been that transformation lives in language, and that 
participants keep the program’s results available in their lives by communicating 
those results with others. At the same time, Erhard’s enterprise has consistently 
eschewed traditional advertising. The only way people have become aware of his 
work has been through hearing about it from their friends, family, or associates. 
The resulting symbiotic relationship—the program survives only when participants 
communicate about it with family and friends, and it is through communicating
about it that participants keep the benefits alive in their experience—has served the 
work well through four decades. By 1985, when the est Training was discontinued
t
and replaced by The Forum, word-of-mouth had brought a half-million people to see
for themselves what this transformation was all about. As of 2019, another 2 million
“


=== LAYOUT INFO ===
{
  "page_width": 783.0,
  "page_height": 612.0,
  "text_blocks_count": 9,
  "images_count": 0,
  "has_columns": true,
  "margins": {
    "top": 26.77,
    "bottom": 47.63,
    "left": 62.99,
    "right": 35.82
  }
}

=== FONTS USED ===
SourceSansPro-It_9.5
SourceSansPro-Bold_18.0
SourceSansPro-Regular_9.0
SourceSansPro-BoldIt_10.0
SourceSansPro-Bold_9.0
SourceSansPro-SemiboldIt_72.0
SourceSansPro-Bold_10.0
SourceSansPro-Regular_9.5