=== PAGE 50 ===

36
SPEAKING BEING
was “to manipulate his audience so as to secure agreement” 
(“Persuasion” 19). But a “turn” in Johnstone’s thinking led him 
to acknowledge by 1978 that “the distinction between finding 
the truth in philosophy and finding the proper rhetorical devices 
for propagating it cannot be maintained” (“Truth” 74). In other 
words, “truth” is always and already rhetorical, never severed 
from its communication, and thus finding the “truth” requires 
holding up a pretense that rhetoric is merely a convenient 
accessory that can be dispensed with.
 Johnstone’s new perspective of the philosophy–rhetoric 
relationship was based in the concept of evocation: “My present 
view is that a successful argument in philosophy is one that is 
intended to evoke, and does evoke, a response of a certain kind 
in the man to whom it is addressed” (“Truth” 75). Johnstone cited 
Heidegger as evidence for this view, and his description here of 
Heidegger’s language use is consistent with our understanding of 
both Heidegger’s and Erhard’s thinking:
ERHARD
That’s why we don’t give you anything to remember. You just have to be.
HANNAH
There’s a new babysitter watching the baby while I’m here and I got a note at the break to call
and I immediately felt terror because six months ago there was an accident that threatened his
life.
ERHARD
You understand that the terror is of no value to her? You sympathize with the terror. When you
leave here you’ll be a little more ruthless than you are now. You’ll be concerned for what em-
powers people, not for sympathizing with their weaknesses. No empowerment in terror.
HANNAH
I had lost closeness with him. It was more about clinging, and I saw that it was more about
terror.
ERHARD
Major issues like parenting or confronting death generate the most persistent stories. The things 
that are real close to us are hard not to be stupid about. It’s hard to be with that people do die.
And you are going to die. And that’s hard to be with. The more dramatic the soap opera is the
easier it is to get drawn into it and not be able to distinguish the story from what happened.
MAX
I’m here because I want my life to stop being an emergency, in my personal and professional 
life. I am an upset waiting to happen.
ERHARD
Some of you are an argument waiting to happen. You’re waiting for the occasion to act out the 
argument.
MAX
Turning away from my story to what happened is like becoming an arbitrator. It helps me get 
away from my guilt.
ERHARD
If guilt were useful, I would say have a lot of it. Listen up here! This is another one of those 
things you want to get. Feeling guilty makes it all right that you did something. If you didn’t feel 
guilty you’d be a bad person. That’s not terrible to be a bad person. No, it’s all right to do some-
thing as long as you feel guilty about it. Guilt is the salve we put on something that we did so
that we don’t have to be responsible for it. But you don’t know what I’m talking about because
you don’t know the diff erence between guilt and responsibility at this point. Max?
If I am correct in arguing that Heidegger 
conceives philosophy as basically rhetorical, 
some revision in our conception of rhetoric 
is called for. . . its purpose is not to incite its 
hearer to action—even the action of adopting 
some specific belief. Instead, rhetoric totally 
reorients the hearer; if he listens to it he is in 
a position to abandon an inauthentic life in 
favor of an authentic one. (“Rhetoric” 68)
“
On this view, the truth of philosophy is intimately infused with 
its communicability: “discovery, communication, and rhetoric all 
collapse into a unitary philosophical act” (“Truth” 76). Further, 
communicability is manifested as evocation: “The only way to tell 
whether what I have is a truth or a falsehood,” said Johnstone, “is 
to contemplate its evocative power.” And rhetoric, he added, is “the 
art of evocation” (“Truth” 76).
Finally, Johnstone’s discussion of Heidegger raises a third issue 
which will be particularly relevant in our analysis of The Forum: that 
is the question of the appropriate rhetorical style for addressing an 


=== LAYOUT INFO ===
{
  "page_width": 783.0,
  "page_height": 612.0,
  "text_blocks_count": 13,
  "images_count": 0,
  "has_columns": true,
  "margins": {
    "top": 26.77,
    "bottom": 35.5,
    "left": 35.68,
    "right": 51.4
  }
}

=== FONTS USED ===
SourceSansPro-It_9.5
SourceSansPro-Regular_9.0
SourceSansPro-Bold_9.0
SourceSansPro-SemiboldIt_72.0
STIXTwoText_9.5
STIXTwoText-Italic_9.5
STIXTwoText-Bold_9.5
SourceSansPro-Bold_10.0
SourceSansPro-Regular_9.5