=== PAGE 21 ===

 
Forum Day One: Session One 
7
 PRELUDE
More than 700 people were assembled in the ballroom of the Hyatt Regency Hotel in San 
Francisco on the morning of December 27th, 1989. This was the first day of The Forum, and the 
occasion was unique in several ways. The first was that this Forum was to be led by Werner 
Erhard himself. Although he had created the technology of language that constituted The
Forum, since 1973, to accommodate growing demand for the program across the United States 
and in Europe, the course had increasingly been led by members of a growing body of est
Trainers, and later Forum leaders, a group of men and women trained by Erhard. As of 1989 
there were forty-three Forum leaders, ten women and thirty-three men.
A second unique aspect of this four-day event was that it was an exceptionally large Forum
composed of various groups in addition to the 502 regular participants (the usual number
ranged from 100 to 250). Forty Forum leaders were also present as part of their training; during 
breaks in the procedure, they met with Erhard for debriefing sessions that the senior author 
attended as part of a special program for Forum graduates called Openings, a group of approx-
imately 100 participants who were permitted to observe without actively participating. Also 
in the room were a number of invited observers who occupied a visitors’ gallery and whose
number varied during the course of The Forum. Last, a large contingent of staff and assistants
(volunteers) performed logistical duties throughout the four days. 
Due to the efforts of the assistants, the ballroom set-up remained consistent across all 
sessions of each of the four days. Regular participants and Forum leaders were seated in rows,
theater-style, before a raised platform which stretched across most of the width of the room, 
and included a runway section extending well into the center of the audience area. Arranged
on the platform were three chalkboards, two bar-height director’s chairs, a music stand, and
a large table which held a water pitcher and glasses, tissues, and writing materials. Openings 
participants and other observers were seated on risers at the rear of the room. Also at the rear
of the room was an enclosed translators’ booth: among the participants in Openings were 
twenty-five observers from Japan, seminar leaders and staff members in the Tokyo office of 
Werner Erhard and Associates. They listened to the proceedings in simultaneous translation 
through earphones connected to the translators’ booth. Finally, three television cameras were
placed strategically around the room to record the event, and several television monitors were 
placed so that most participants could watch the proceedings on video if they chose.
THE FORUM BEGINS
At 9:00 am, unannounced, Werner Erhard walked onto the platform. His manner was relaxed 
and casual. He wore dark tan slacks, a white shirt open at the collar, and an olive sweater 
vest. He greeted the participants in a friendly way, welcomed guests, and asked for questions 
while late arrivals were completing their paperwork. He asked if there was anything about the
television cameras that needed clearing up, and he explained the presence of the Openings
participants and the observers seated in the Gallery. Someone asked about the people wearing
earphones, and he explained about the translators and participants from Japan. “That’s a good 
question,” he said. “Questions like that . . . what about, what if?”
Participants who raised their hands were asked to stand and wait until they were given a 
microphone; an assistant was stationed on each aisle to deliver one. After Erhard responded 
SPEAKING 
BEING
DAY ONE
FORUM DAY ONE: 
SESSION ONE


=== LAYOUT INFO ===
{
  "page_width": 783.0,
  "page_height": 612.0,
  "text_blocks_count": 8,
  "images_count": 0,
  "has_columns": true,
  "margins": {
    "top": 26.68,
    "bottom": 40.62,
    "left": 104.29,
    "right": 34.61
  }
}

=== FONTS USED ===
SourceSansPro-Regular_9.0
UniversLTStd-UltraCn_42.0
UniversLTStd-UltraCn_24.0
UniversLTStd-UltraCn_48.0
SourceSansPro-Bold_9.0
STIXTwoText_9.5
STIXTwoText-Bold_9.5
STIXTwoText_5.53849983215332