=== PAGE 29 ===

 
Forum Day One: Session One 
15
SAL 
I believe that when it rains it rains in order to sustain life.
ERHARD
Okay, let’s stay there. Anybody else in that ballpark with Sal? Stand up if you are. Stand up if it 
rains in-order-to.
(a number of people rose)
If you’re not standing and you are an in-order-to, you’re interfering with your participation in 
The Forum. These people who are standing are not silly. They’ve got their foot nailed to the 
fl oor someplace. This will happen to all of you a lot of times during The Forum.
(to Sal, indicating the director’s chair on the platform)
Are the legs there to hold up the chair? We know that the legs do hold up the chair. For the legs, 
is there any in-order-to? Are the legs in-ordering-to?
(pausing) 
It’s too hard that way... let me try something diff erent. Is the wall standing in order to hold the
ceiling up?
SAL 
Yes, in my opinion. 
ERHARD
Does the lightning lightning in order to start forest fi res?
SAL 
No.
ERHARD
Where is this organ of intentionality in the rainstorm?
SAL 
The spirituality of the universe.
ERHARD  (to the group)
He just told me where his foot’s nailed to the fl oor. He’s got something he believes so he can’t 
think about it.
(to Sal)
You think there’s an intentionality in the rainstorm. You said it’s your belief that matter was
invaded by spirit in some way. Does it rain in order to produce fl oods?
usual way of conceptualizing. Think “freedom” and a conceptual
barrage is evoked; think “Being” and the mind’s resources are few. 
Our second thesis, since it eludes capture in concepts, 
can only be hinted at. It exists always as a background, 
in a domain of language that remains always unspoken. 
Unspoken, it is the unexamined context that shapes the way we
understand everything else; unspoken, it is made present as 
the transformational background in the dialogue of The Forum;
unspoken, it is hinted at persistently in Heidegger’s writing and in 
his lectures. Our second thesis, then, is this unspoken domain of 
language, formally referred to as the ontological realm. 
In this book, to show what Werner Erhard and Martin 
Heidegger are doing in their work, the authors are called upon 
to say—to hint at—the unspoken shared dynamic at the center 
of that work. Inevitably, an element of mystery attends this
topic; but nothing here is devious or arcane. While ontological
communication makes rigorous demands on our everyday
understanding, Erhard’s work is a practical pedagogical 
methodology, demonstrating that education beyond the merely 
epistemological is a real-world possibility.
The authors intend that our second thesis will be 
communicated in the background as we proceed through this
book, leaving the reader with a hint of its nature as it emerges in
The Forum. 
One aspect of this background communication is that 
unfamiliar terms or concepts may not be fully defined at the 
point of their first appearance. Rather, they will be distinguished 
gradually as they appear and reappear in the text. A definition
specifies conceptual limits; a distinction opens a space for 
thinking and acting, and the space is expanded each time the
distinction is encountered. The goal of the inquiry, then, is 
never an answer, but the opening of a question from which 
to experience the world. We invite the reader to embrace the 
freedom that this background of questionability gives: at play in 
the question, you don’t need the right answer.  ■


=== LAYOUT INFO ===
{
  "page_width": 783.0,
  "page_height": 612.0,
  "text_blocks_count": 18,
  "images_count": 0,
  "has_columns": true,
  "margins": {
    "top": 26.68,
    "bottom": 54.62,
    "left": 52.37,
    "right": 34.58
  }
}

=== FONTS USED ===
SourceSansPro-It_9.5
SourceSansPro-Regular_9.0
SourceSansPro-Bold_9.0
ZapfDingbatsStd_9.5
STIXTwoText_9.5
STIXTwoText-Italic_9.5
STIXTwoText-Bold_9.5
SourceSansPro-Regular_9.5