=== PAGE 49 ===

Forum Day One: Session Two 
35
Philosophy as Rhetorical Evocation
We propose that The Forum is an instance of ontological 
rhetoric. We emphasize at the outset that this is not the everyday 
understanding of rhetoric as “mere rhetoric,” that is, language that 
is superficial and disconnected from serious purposes. Rhetoric as 
we use the term is any use of language that is intended to produce 
a real-world result. Ontological rhetoric communicates in the 
unspoken realm of language to provide its listeners with access to 
the realm of Being. 
Recognition of the value and function of ontological 
rhetoric is found in the later writing of Henry W. Johnstone, 
Jr., founder of the journal, Philosophy and Rhetoric. Early in his 
career, Johnstone believed that the role of the philosophical 
rhetor was “to treat his audience as an object,” and that his goal 
should quit or leave.” That’s not the way it works. It’s a rainstorm. Leaving, getting out of things,
quitting—owns your life. It’s true you have the conversation with yourself personally. But that’s 
like getting wet in a rainstorm.
(with emphasis)
I’m not thinking that. That is thinking me.
(pausing)
I’m starting to talk like people don’t talk, because I want access to what concerns me that
people don’t have. So you and I are starting to invent a language that gives us access to the
things that are interesting, or important, that concern us in life. It’s not your thought. I want 
you to start to think that it thinks you. You have the thoughts like you get wet in the rain-
storm. I’m just asking you to begin to think in a way you haven’t thought before. The kind of 
person you are is given by that thinking, which isn’t your thoughts or your thinking.
JOHN
What I noticed was that each of us have diff erent stories about how we got together.
ERHARD
You can’t ask questions like “True?” about people’s stories. There’s no such thing as “true
”
stories.” “True” and “story” don’t go together. A story’s a story. People get into trouble in life
because they start believing their stories. Even worse, you start believing someone else’s story—
makes you a spear-carrier in somebody else’s opera. This is not a good way to live.
JOHN
We did what we did and got married.
ERHARD
Who is not clear about choosing to be married? The conversation about why you’re in The 
Forum could apply as well to you in your job, or your marriage. Almost nobody thinks they 
are anyplace because they put themselves there. But everybody puts themselves there. Then
you get the story about why you’re there. There’s no power in the story... You live in a story 
about being married. I accuse you that you live in a story about being married, and the 
quality of being married reflects that it in part is generated by a story. I didn’t say you don’t
have a good marriage. But it’s limited to a certain box, a certain space or quality, when it’s a 
story. What happened? You got married. Then there’s this whole story. And they’re distinct
from one another. The same thing is true about everything in life. See, you and I have the 
kind of lives that people would have if they lived out of a story. And mostly the story is 
constituted mostly by your reasons. But you got that job. That’s what happened.
JOHN
Normally I know that, but I wasn’t clear about that last night. It’s so easy to forget.


=== LAYOUT INFO ===
{
  "page_width": 783.0,
  "page_height": 612.0,
  "text_blocks_count": 11,
  "images_count": 0,
  "has_columns": true,
  "margins": {
    "top": 26.77,
    "bottom": 43.32,
    "left": 52.37,
    "right": 34.32
  }
}

=== FONTS USED ===
SourceSansPro-It_9.5
SourceSansPro-Regular_9.0
SourceSansPro-Bold_12.0
SourceSansPro-Bold_9.0
STIXTwoText_9.5
STIXTwoText-Italic_9.5
STIXTwoText-Bold_9.5
SourceSansPro-Regular_9.5