=== PAGE 13 ===

 
Praise for Speaking Being
xi
Authors Hyde and Kopp accomplish the formidable task of masterfully presenting 
Erhard and Heidegger side by side in a readable, lively, and illuminating text. There 
is nothing quite like it!
JERONIMA (JERI) ECHEVERRIA, Professor of History and Provost Emerita, California 
State University at Fresno, former Executive Vice-Chancellor for Academic Aff airs of 
the California State University System
Educational research confirms that without a significant intervention, students 
who become teachers are likely to replicate the pedagogical approaches their 
teachers used with them. Practicing Erhard’s approach to ontological inquiry—
presented in print for the first time in this book—provides such an intervention. 
It equips students, teachers, academics of any field to critically examine their 
dispositions and access more eff ective ways of being and acting. Speaking Being is
a must read for scholars of social foundations of education, teacher education, and
frankly, for members of any field of study.
CAROLYNE J. WHITE, Professor of Social Foundations, Department of Urban 
Education, Rutgers University Newark
A diff erent you and a diff erent me must show up each day if we are going to
tackle the world’s most vexing problems. This book talks us through a process of 
transformation by showing us what it means to be an authentic human being in an
inauthentic world, and what it means to take a stand for a world where everyone
matters and where everyone can make a diff erence. 
WILEY “CHIP” SOUBA, MD, SCD, MBA, Professor of Surgery, Geisel School 
of Medicine at Dartmouth, former Dean of Medicine and VP for Health Aff airs,
Dartmouth College
This engaging study of Erhard’s counter-discursive approach to transformational 
education—and how this approach aligns significantly with Heidegger’s thinking—
might serve as a starting point for a deeper Indigenous philosophy. Rooted in a
more non-hierarchical epistemology, such an Indigenous philosophy promises to
move us away from a colonized and deeply problematized way of thinking, toward 
embracing the power and mysteriousness of presence, and making possible a
place-based, non-anthropocentric interconnectedness. This is the next essential 
step we must take if we are to survive as a species.
FOUR ARROWS, AKA DON TRENT JACOBS, PHD, EdD, editor of Unlearning the
Language of Conquest, author of Point of Departure
f
and Teaching Truly
d
While some readers of Speaking Being may be familiar with The Landmark Forum, 
most don’t know its connections to the philosophical tradition. Hyde and Kopp 
have woven together concise explanations of Heidegger’s notoriously diff icult 
thinking with an actual transcript of Erhard’s Forum—by turns moving, funny, and 
shocking. This juxtaposition draws the reader into the experience and powerfully
illuminates the teachings of these two thinkers.
DAVID STOREY, Associate Professor, Boston College, author of 
Naturalizing Heidegger
Speaking Being presents an ontological play between Erhard, Heidegger, the 
participants of a Forum delivered in 1989, and the reader, who is summoned to 
the scene to dwell in compelling questions and distinctions, the living of which
make available the invention of a life that is experienced as authentic. The
relentless commitment of authors Hyde and Kopp to communicate the unsayable, 
Being, opens up new directions for a rhetoric of emancipation that goes beyond 
traditional critical theories. Speaking Being speaks a new relation to language, one
that honors the unexplored ontological power of language to create a new freedom 
to be, to live with existential courage.
MARGARIDA GARCIA, Vice-Dean, Research and Communications, Faculty of Law 
(Civil Law) and Professor, Faculty of Law (Civil Law) and Faculty of Social Sciences,
University of Ottawa


=== LAYOUT INFO ===
{
  "page_width": 783.0,
  "page_height": 612.0,
  "text_blocks_count": 12,
  "images_count": 0,
  "has_columns": true,
  "margins": {
    "top": 26.77,
    "bottom": 70.23,
    "left": 63.0,
    "right": 34.18
  }
}

=== FONTS USED ===
SourceSansPro-It_9.5
SourceSansPro-Regular_9.0
SourceSansPro-It_9.0
SourceSansPro-Bold_9.0
SourceSansPro-Semibold_9.5
SourceSansPro-Regular_9.5