=== PAGE 22 ===

8
SPEAKING BEING
Talking about Being
One of the similarities between the work of Werner Erhard and
Martin Heidegger is that both are designing a language for a 
specific purpose: the evocation of Being. Since the debut of The 
Forum in 1985, Erhard has regularly incorporated Heideggerian 
terminology into his vocabulary, and has quoted Heidegger 
extensively in his courses. It is the primary thesis of this book that 
Erhard’s work is aligned in significant ways with the philosophy of 
Martin Heidegger. Even the est Training, the beginnings of which
t
predate Erhard’s encounter with Heidegger (circa 1980), already
was aligned in significant ways with Heidegger’s thinking. This
alignment allowed Erhard to creatively incorporate Heideggerian
language in the delivery of what would become The Forum.
Heidegger’s language, on first encounter, is notoriously 
difficult; he regularly invented new German terms for his ideas,
and translators have struggled to capture his meanings. Erhard
likewise uses words in unconventional ways, and calls his work
a “technology of language” in recognition of that fact. It is the
experience of the authors that a comparative inquiry into the two 
bodies of work illuminates the thinking of both men, and helps
to clarify the linguistic complexity of Heidegger’s writing. In this 
book, we intend gradually to unconceal (a Heideggerian term 
l
Erhard has used) that clarity (IM 116). 
This is not to say that either body of thought ever reaches the
kind of logical understandability that we generally expect in what
we read and hear. “If you walk out of here understanding,” Erhard
tells The Forum participants at one point, “that’s the booby prize.” 
Both Heidegger and Erhard are attempting to communicate
something that, on that familiar level, cannot be communicated 
or grasped. This is new territory for communication, and requires 
both a new language (or, as Erhard says, new “languaging”) and a
new way of listening.
We request, therefore, that the reader join us in embracing
the atmosphere of questionability that must surround this entire
to several questions about the various colors of name tags worn by people in the room, one 
participant raised her hand. Erhard called upon her to stand, and she asked about Erhard’s use 
of language.
ERHARD
You need a language that gives you access to the kind of detail that you need to be a brain sur-
geon... The language you and I are going to use in here is also a specifi c language. It’s designed 
to let you get at something you can’t get at without that language. Surgeons generally confi ne 
that kind of speaking to the operating room, and so do I. I don’t use that language when I’m out
to dinner. For the most part it’s unseemly to use special language when you’re with people who
don’t share in that language.
Erhard asked for more questions. After he called on someone, he explained the reasons for
standing up and for calling on multiple people (“to allow time to get microphones to them”). She 
asked about logistics. Erhard said it would happen later. She sat down.
BLAKE (after receiving a microphone from an assistant)
I don’t know whether The Forum started yet, but I wanted to get through my apprehension of 
speaking before the group.
ERHARD
I suggest that those of you who have a fear of speaking take the same opportunity as Blake did. 
In The Forum no one is required to stand up and speak, though it is in your interest to do so,
especially if you are reluctant to stand and speak.
Erhard also discussed the schedule of the course, pointing out that the daily ending time would be 
sometime between 11:00 pm and 1:00 am, adding that
ERHARD
Nobody guarantees you that schedule. You want to be clear about that. We’re going to do this 
as long as it takes to get it done.
In addition, he said, The Forum would not be complete until the completion of the evening session, 
which would be held on the following Thursday evening—simultaneously in several cities, since 
many participants in this Forum had traveled to San Francisco for this event. Participants were 
encouraged to bring guests to their respective evening sessions.
As the conversation proceeded into the second hour, it gradually became clear, without transition,
that the serious business of the course had begun. A participant named Ruth rose to say that she
was pessimistic about getting the results of The Forum. Erhard began his response by acknowledg-
ing the validity of her doubt.


=== LAYOUT INFO ===
{
  "page_width": 783.0,
  "page_height": 612.0,
  "text_blocks_count": 15,
  "images_count": 0,
  "has_columns": true,
  "margins": {
    "top": 26.93,
    "bottom": 34.65,
    "left": 36.0,
    "right": 51.61
  }
}

=== FONTS USED ===
SourceSansPro-It_9.5
SourceSansPro-Regular_9.0
SourceSansPro-Bold_12.0
SourceSansPro-Bold_9.0
STIXTwoText_9.5
STIXTwoText-Italic_9.5
STIXTwoText-Bold_9.5
SourceSansPro-Regular_9.5