=== PAGE 19 ===

 
Introduction
5
Burke, who, beyond their tireless support, have gathered together a generous read-
ing group. To the group, composed of Allan Cohen, Joe DiMaggio, Bruce Gregory, 
Michael C. Jensen, Sigurfreyr Jonasson, David C. Logan, Nicholas Merton, Daniel 
Rogerson, Steve Zaffron, and Michael E. Zimmerman—we want you to know our im-
measurable joy when we received feedback that could only come from the deepest
appreciation. For granting access to Landmark Worldwide’s archives to allow for the 
production of an accurate and complete transcript, we thank Harry Rosenberg, Mick
Leavitt and Landmark Worldwide staff. To the Wiley team, including Shannon Vargo,
Sally Baker, Peter Knox, Deborah Schindlar, and Jocelyn Kwiatkowski: thank you for 
taking a risk on this project—given its untraditional scope, design, and size—and
for taking such great care throughout all stages of bringing this book into the world.
To Lou Agosta, Jeff Bineham, Richard Doyle, Charles Guignon, Michael J. Hyde,
and Carolyne White—together with the members of Lecole book club—thank you
for reviewing and responding to the early versions of the manuscript; we hope your 
thoughtful attention presages serious study of this rich rhetorical phenomenon 
within such academic fields as rhetoric and writing studies, education, philosophy,
and communication studies.
Last, Bruce and I together stand in ovation to the man who has made, and will
continue to make, the difference for both of us and countless others—the difference
for all those who have had the opportunity, the gift, to be and speak with him—for 
in the very act of speaking being we create possibility for ourselves and our lives. 
Werner Erhard: Thank you for providing a way to say what otherwise remains 
forever unsayable.
instance, the central theme of “the forgetting of Being,” which has eight parts.
Our purpose in this book is not to explain The Forum, or Heidegger’s philosophy—
although there are moments where we do provide analysis—but rather, we primarily
aim to engage the reader in thinking Erhard’s and Heidegger’s ideas for themselves.
For readers who have previously participated in The Forum, we believe the con-
fluence here of Heidegger’s thinking with Erhard’s will enrich the way those readers
hold their Forum experience.  This has been true for the authors, and it is likewise
consistent with the experience of Werner Erhard, for whom exposure to Heidegger’s 
thinking provided profound insights (Erhard, interview with authors). We intend that 
this book, in a dialogue with its readers, will evoke such insights.  
Martin Heidegger once cautioned his students not to focus too closely on the
concepts in his lectures, but rather to follow the “movement of showing” (OTB 2).
The Forum conversation, we assert, is a carefully designed movement in language 
for the showing of being. In this book, we will show that showing. Our goal—Heide-
gger’s, Erhard’s, the authors’—is the unconcealment of a powerful aspect of human
being with which we are, for the most part, unfamiliar.
While it may go without saying, reading this book will not provide an experience
of The Forum. We intend to hint at that experience, and we encourage readers for 
whom our hints are provocative to seek out the experience for themselves. The Forum
occurs essentially as a dialogue; ontological inquiry demands interactive play, and 
needs “the widest sphere in which to swing” (“DL” in OWL 27). In written form, Heideg-
ger warned, “the movement of the questioning that is called for here might too easily 
congeal” (“DL” in OWL 50). 
Nonetheless, as we undertake this project, the authors stand in the open ques-
tion: What is the possibility of communicating being? This is not a questioning that
seeks an answer; rather, the inquiry it generates persistently reflects the question 
itself back upon the questioner, undermining comforting and limiting assumptions.
Thus we see it as a transformational question. We invite the reader to join us in this 
inquiry.
Acknowledgments
It is impossible to list all those who have contributed significantly to the composi-
tion of this book; to do so with full integrity would mean naming all who have risked 
what it means to hear the unsaid in what is said. In particular, our gratitude goes
to several extraordinary individuals without whom our work would have failed to
move beyond the planning stages, including first, Barbara Stevenson and Sheryl


=== LAYOUT INFO ===
{
  "page_width": 783.0,
  "page_height": 612.0,
  "text_blocks_count": 7,
  "images_count": 0,
  "has_columns": true,
  "margins": {
    "top": 26.77,
    "bottom": 44.51,
    "left": 62.99,
    "right": 36.99
  }
}

=== FONTS USED ===
SourceSansPro-It_9.5
SourceSansPro-Bold_18.0
SourceSansPro-Regular_9.0
SourceSansPro-Bold_9.0
SourceSansPro-Regular_9.5