=== PAGE 28 ===

14
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD (continuing)
That by the way was meant as a compliment. I’m going to off er you an opportunity to do this 
for the rest of your life, because I’m clear that you’re going to get a lot of value out of this and
I’m going to off er you the opportunity to get more value. You will always have the power to
decline. I want you to know that’s there in the relationship between me and you. I have no
reluctance to hustling you, because you always have the power to decline. Is that clear?
JAKE
Yeah, I got it.
The fi rst morning of The Forum continued as a dialogue with the group as Erhard responded to
participants’ questions. One woman expressed a concern that the content would go “over her head.”
ERHARD
Most of what I say is not designed for your head. Understanding is not the problem in life. If 
you took a four-day course in how to be a tennis player and you left the course as a great tennis 
player without understanding a word of it, the diff erence would be your being a great tennis
player. We don’t promise you any understanding. You’re welcome to understand. I like this 
stuff , so I enjoy understanding it. That’s a quirk in me. We do this so that there’s a freedom
to be. If you walk out understanding, that’s the booby prize. You walk out of here with the 
freedom to be that you didn’t have when you walked in here, then you got something for your
money. Speaking in here is designed to create the freedom to be... You don’t understand what 
that means. What interests me is the freedom to be. You’ll be interested in that too before this 
is over. I’ve done The Forum before so I know it works out.
A woman stated that she was already always nervous.
ERHARD (to the group)
How many people in here are already always nervous? 
(most raising their hands)
You understand that the things that are going on with you are going on with everybody? You’re 
like a rainstorm. You’ve got to get that there’s nothing personal about a rainstorm—that is,
that it waters the little fl owers. You think that the rainstorm is worried about life on earth. You 
think that it rains so that... it rains in-order-to. It’s true that life is sustained by the rain, but it’s
not true that it rains in-order-to.
SAL (standing up, receiving a microphone)
You’re just arguing semantics.
ERHARD
No, it’s not semantics. Or the other answer to that is, yes it’s semantics, but so is everything else 
in the universe.
Two Theses
The first thesis of this book, which will be addressed directly in 
the text, is that the work of Werner Erhard is aligned in important 
ways with the thinking of Martin Heidegger. Our purpose is to 
show this alignment through a comparative analysis of their work, 
an analysis that not only illuminates the thinking of both men, but 
sheds light as well on the nature of their shared central concern.
The second thesis, equal in importance to the first, cannot 
be addressed directly in the text. We have indicated it with the 
term Being, since unless we indicate it we cannot talk about it—as 
Heidegger puts it, “one cannot get by in public without rubrics” 
(OWL 29). But the term serves merely as a place-holder, since 
what it indicates cannot be thought, or even thought about, in our 


=== LAYOUT INFO ===
{
  "page_width": 783.0,
  "page_height": 612.0,
  "text_blocks_count": 13,
  "images_count": 0,
  "has_columns": true,
  "margins": {
    "top": 26.93,
    "bottom": 33.23,
    "left": 36.0,
    "right": 52.32
  }
}

=== FONTS USED ===
SourceSansPro-It_9.5
SourceSansPro-Regular_9.0
SourceSansPro-Bold_12.0
SourceSansPro-Bold_9.0
STIXTwoText_9.5
STIXTwoText-Italic_9.5
STIXTwoText-Bold_9.5
SourceSansPro-Regular_9.5