=== PAGE 24 ===

10
SPEAKING BEING
Nevertheless, despite its challenges, we assert that Being is 
also the most important thing that one could talk about, since 
talk that evokes Being has the ability to transform talk about 
everything else.
A fundamental difference in this arena is the distinction
between ontological and 
l
ontic inquiry. Ontological inquiry is 
concerned primarily with Being. Therefore all of Heidegger’s
writing, and all of the dialogue of The Forum, is ontological in 
nature. Ontic inquiry is concerned with beings, and with facts 
about them. Therefore all of our everyday conversations—
everything from political discourse to casual social chat—may be
seen as ontic. 
This is not to dismiss ontic inquiry as unimportant, or to 
equate a discussion of religion or physics with coffeeshop banter. 
We are not claiming that ontological inquiry is better, but that 
it is essentially different. And in the experience of the authors, 
it is profoundly interesting because of its transformational 
possibilities. In this book, we will illuminate the nature of 
ontological inquiry.
A prefatory note: people who write about Heidegger’s 
work differ as to whether the term Being should be capitalized.
This is, of course, a choice for translators and not one that 
confronted Heidegger, since in German all nouns are capitalized. 
It is a problematic choice because capitalization tends to reify 
or even deify, suggesting to some scholars that Being is “an 
eternal metaphysical foundation or eternal principle,” while 
for Heidegger it was “the event in which an entity reveals or 
t
shows itself” (Michael E. Zimmerman, Heidegger’s Confrontation 
with Modernity: Technology, Politics, Art xxii). Others feel that
t
capitalization is important so that what it means to exist (Being)
is not confused with the entities that exist (beings) (Richard Polt
Heidegger: An Introduction 3). 
In print, Erhard himself did not capitalize the term: a 1985 
Forum brochure states that the purpose of The Forum is to 
provide participants with “direct access to the domain of being 
itself.” In his more recent work, such as documents outlining 
I want to make now is that whatever it is that you’re feeling, or whatever it is that you’re
thinking, or whatever your mental state is, or whatever your perception is, the way you are
viewing things—that’s exactly the way it ought to be. I’m going to probably have to say that 
to you ten times, because you won’t remember that.
(to the group)
Another way you already always are is stupid about yourself. If that sounded a little bit like an
insult, you got it right. You may not be able to see that about yourself, but you’ll be able to see it
about others. As I said: not you, but other people.
(laughter)
There are ways of being with yourself that are disempowering and disenabling. You lose power 
and you lose ability. Whatever way you fi nd yourself now, and whatever ways you fi nd yourself 
variously throughout The Forum or in the evenings, or on the breaks: that’s the way you’re sup-
posed to be—whatever way that is. One way to disempower or disenable yourself is to question
whether you are being the right way... You’ll get a lot more out of The Forum a lot faster if you 
let yourself be the way you are.
(pausing)
There’s a lot of this you’re not going to get. Some of it won’t make any sense. You’re not going 
to get the whole Forum. The questions we’re asking in here are too powerful to get it all. The 
Forum leaders are still getting it. So am I. But there are parts when you need to get it. In those
parts, put up your hand if you don’t. There will be a lot of repetition in here, too. For the fourth
time: you should be the way you are! However you feel, that’s the way it ought to be. The way 
I know that is, that’s the way it is... The only right way to do The Forum is to be the way you’re 
being. If you say you shouldn’t be pessimistic, you’re getting in your way.
A participant complained that she was distracted by and resentful about the physical set-up for this 
Forum—the cameras, the observers, etc.
ERHARD
What you want to get out of that is that life is upsetting because it isn’t the way you expected it 
to be. The Forum will be that way also. What you want to get out of that is that you’re already 
upset. You’re already always upset at any change, at anything that violates your expectations. 
You think you’re not upset until something violates your expectations. I said this strange thing:
you are already always upset. You live upset. I know you don’t believe that and I’m not asking 
you to. You’re an upset waiting to happen. You’ll see that more clearly as we proceed.
LYNETTE
I’m often upset.
ERHARD
You’re always upset, and sometimes you notice it.
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 24 ===