=== PAGE 146 ===

132
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
No it doesn’t. And you’re a fucking racketeer and you’ve been carrying those goddamned di-
vorces around, and the pain, for the payoff . And after Kipp gets this distinguished when we get
back, you and I will have a little conversation. But we’ve got the ground established clearly. Do 
we not? Look, you’re so frightened of losing that racket it’s got you really upset. You’re going to
be a real wrong lady when we’re done with the conversation. You will have spent years in pain 
for nothing. You’re going to lose that whole justifi cation after being in pain. You’ll also lose all 
that baggage you’ve been carrying around.
ANGEL
All that pain makes it worth something.
ERHARD
Ahhh. Emerging racket. Listen. There is a payoff . Yeah, you got to justify what happened. That’s 
one of the payoff s. Self-justifi cation. Listen. I want you to be upset. I want you to be bothered. 
I want you to stay that way until we talk after the break again. And I intend to insult you and
make you feel bad.
ANGEL
Thank you.
ERHARD
You’re welcome.
(laughter)r
Yeah, and I’m insulting you and making you feel bad because you are your divorces. And I have 
no respect for your divorces. No respect for the story and no respect for the soap opera. And I 
can’t fi nd any of you to respect there. Once we get some of you up, then I’ll have some respect.
Not insult. I’m insulting that crap.
ANGEL
There are a lot of people who respect me for my divorces, and my story about my divorces. 
ERHARD
For certain, or you wouldn’t still be doing it otherwise. No one infl icts pain on themselves.
ANGEL
Then why are you accusing me of infl icting pain on myself?
ERHARD
Because you are. You’re listening to this like it’s your fault. I didn’t say it was your fault.
SOLICITUDE OF A FORUM LEADER
In Heideggerian terms, the Forum leader’s way of Being-with-The-
Forum participants is characterized as extreme positive solicitude.
Solicitude is Heidegger’s term for Dasein’s way of Be-
ing-with-Others who are themselves Dasein—that is, other human
beings. This is distinct from how Heidegger understands concern,
which indicates our way of being toward Things, or present-at-
hand entities (please see the sidebar “Concern” in Session Four of 
Day One). Solicitude is an existentiale, which is to say, an aspect of 
Dasein’s Being. “Thus in concernful solicitude the Other is proxi-
mally disclosed” (BT 161).
T
Throughout Being and Time, Heidegger introduces charac-
teristics of Dasein as occurring in various ways or “modes,” which 
indicate that the characteristic generally shows up to a greater or 
lesser degree, or in some cases not at all. Describing this feature of 
Heidegger’s work, the book’s translators, John Macquarrie and Ed-
ward Robinson, comment: “It is as if zero and the negative integers 
were to be thought of as representing ‘deficient modes of being a 
positive integer’” (BT 42, note 1).
T
Heidegger tells us, for example, that solicitude, as a charac-
teristic of Being-with-one-another, maintains itself for the most 
part in the “deficient and Indiff erent modes.” “Being for, against, 
or without one another, passing one another by, not ‘mattering’ to 
one another—these are possible ways of solicitude” (BT 158).
T
Because of the prevalence of these deficient modes, Dasein,
sensing a need to create factical human connection, has devised


=== END OF PAGE 146 ===