=== PAGE 100 ===

86
SPEAKING BEING
the circumstances. There are also moments when we experience freedom from
self-awareness. The diff erence between these two states is relevant to our inquiry 
here. Where does the self live when it is not alive in our awareness?
This leads to the second point made here by Heidegger, one which is generally less 
apparent than the first: self-reflection is at the same time self-production: “The essential 
thing is ‘I will myself’” (EP 64). The human self is not like the human elbow: it is not a 
P
ready-made part of the package that accompanies an infant’s arrival in the world. What 
is included in the package, although not immediately functional, is language, which pro-
vides the material with which we are eventually able to produce a self. But in a world of 
beings with selves, questions about the nature and stability of the self arise persistently,
and recent advances in the study of the human brain, as well as child development, have
informed the inquiry but have not answered the questions. Therefore we note the point 
here as a question to be kept open as The Forum proceeds.
Regarding the phenomenon of reflexion, Heidegger says further that it is “Man’s
settling down in one of his essential places,” and he notes with emphasis that it is 
characterized by “certainty, certainty” (EP 60). That is, for the most part, human
P
beings are made both secure and comfortable by the condition that their self-knowl-
edge provides. While many of us spend considerable time tinkering with the details
of our identities in the interest of self-improvement, on the whole those identities
give us security. On the whole, we are at home in ourselves.
This, at least, is the way of things in the current paradigm. This interpretation 
of the self, however, while self-evident to most of us, is an artifact of a particular way 
t
of understanding human being. Indeed, it has been the dominant understanding for 
several centuries; and while it is increasingly questioned among people who think 
actively about these matters, such as philosophers and other scholars, it remains
the operative understanding for most people in the world—not as something they
bring to mind, or could articulate, but as a way of functioning in their everyday lives.
This particular way of understanding the world, and our place in it, is generally 
known as the Cartesian paradigm. It is so called in recognition of the man in whose 
thinking the model was crystallized, the seventeenth-century French philosopher 
and mathematician Rene Descartes. As a philosopher, Descartes’ job was to engage
in thought experiments; and in one of those experiments—which turned out to be 
significant for all of us—he decided that he would place everything in the world in 
doubt. His purpose in doing this was to discover what, if anything, was indubitable:
what in the world, in the face of committed skepticism, could retain a quality of 
absolute certainty?
END OF DAY ONE INTERVAL
Reflexion: The Cartesian Deficiency
At the outset of Being and Time, Martin Heidegger makes a point that might other-
wise be dismissed as obvious: any inquiry into the nature of Being—such as Werner 
Erhard’s project, or Heidegger’s own—must always be conducted by human beings,
who as far as we can tell are the only beings who have a concern for the matter, as
well as the only ones who are capable of inquiring. Humans are therefore involved
at multiple points in the inquiry—as the beings who are questioning, as the beings of 
whom the question is asked, and as the beings about whom the question is asked.
t
This point is important because of its implications for the inquiry: it will be char-
acterized throughout by reflexion. Reflexion, or self-referentiality, is an important 
idea in the work of both Heidegger and Erhard. The term designates a state in which 
we are turned toward our selves, as when confronting a reflection.
d
Reflexion requires, first of all, self-consciousness. To say that human beings are 
the only beings for whom their being is an issue, is to say that human beings are the 
only beings who are self-conscious—or, to say it more simply, we are the only beings
who have a self. While the consciousness of other animals is likely always to remain
a mystery at some level, it is generally agreed that dogs do not reflect upon their 
 existence. Here, Heidegger emphasizes the centrality of such reflection to human 
awareness:
Consciousness is self-consciousness, and self-consciousness 
is ego-consciousness or “we”-consciousness. The essential
thing in this is the re-flexive, and in it the “I,” “we,” “self,” 
the presentation-to-self and self-production. (EP 64)
P
“
Two points in this passage should be noted. The first, like many points that
arise in an ontological inquiry, can seem at first both apparent and trivial: one’s
consciousness always includes consciousness of one’s self. That is, in being aware
of my world, I am always at some level aware of my self as the center of my aware-
ness. It is worth taking a moment to notice this, because the nature of the self, and
the quality of its presence in human awareness, will become a central topic as The
Forum proceeds. Clearly, there are moments in life when one’s self-consciousness
becomes intensified, resulting in either pleasure or discomfort, depending upon 


=== END OF PAGE 100 ===