=== PAGE 204 ===

190
SPEAKING BEING
to get to the possibility beyond that is to really see what happened when you were a seven- or 
eight-year-old little girl, and you got held back. Look out there. 
(indicating the group) 
What do you see? 
JANE
A lot of people staring at me.
ERHARD
You can’t see that. You can’t see “people.” You can see that person and that person and that 
person. You can’t see people. “People” is a story. Look out there and see if you can see persons.
JANE
Yeah I see persons.
ERHARD
What are those persons doing?
JANE (looking)
Some are nodding. Mouths open.
ERHARD
Is there anybody out there not liking you?
JANE
No.
ERHARD
Just persons, right? Some of them may not like you. Because there are people “not liking 
people” waiting to happen. And there are seven- and eight- year-olds like that, aren’t they? The 
other thing: I want to know if you’re going to hide the rest of your life. You know you’re hiding? 
JANE
Yes.
ERHARD
You know you’re not expressing yourself?
JANE
Yes.
ERHARD
That’s your racket, isn’t it?
“
. Being
away does not mean: not being at all. It is rather 
a way of Da-sein’s being-there. The stone, in its 
being away, is precisely not there. . . .  Only as long
as we are-there [da-sind] can we be away at all,
and vice-versa. Hence being away, or this ‘there 
and not there,’ is something peculiar, and attune-
ment is connected in some as yet obscure way 
with this peculiar manner of being. (FCM 64, 65)
M
An attunement, then, is not being asleep; nor is it being unconscious. 
It is more akin to being away while there. But it is never not there, 
which is the traditional perspective of moods and attunements, 
as “feelings”—emotional events that come and go as a result of 
circumstances (FCM 64).
M
We have so far discovered some things that an attunement is 
not. “Therefore,” says Heidegger, “we must now ask: How are we 
to grasp attunement positively as belonging to the essence of man, 
and how are we to relate toward man himself if we wish to awaken
an attunement?” (FCM 65).
He beckons us to follow him by suggesting this example:
“
A human being we are with is overcome by grief. Is 
it simply that this person has some state of lived 
experience that we do not have, while everything 
else remains as before? If not, what is happening 
here? The person overcome by grief closes himself 
off , becomes inaccessible, yet without showing any 
animosity toward us; it is simply that he becomes 
inaccessible. . . . Everything remains as before, and 
yet everything is diff erent, not only in this or that 
respect, but—irrespective of what we do and
t
what
we engage in—the way in which we are together is
y
diff erent. (FCM 66)
M
Heidegger is asking us to look closely at the situation. It is not that 
I myself feel grief; but that the attunement of our being with one
another has shift ed.
Or consider someone who is always in a good humor and
“brings a lively atmosphere with them” (FCM 68); or “someone who
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 204 ===