=== PAGE 174 ===

160
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
So let’s talk about that a bit. What happened?
JANE
My dad came home with her. He was gone for a while, and he said “this is your mom.” That’s it. 
No questions.
ERHARD
And what did you say to yourself?
JANE
Fine.
ERHARD
Did you? Did you stuff  it?
JANE
Well I thought that maybe he brought her in so that I would have a mom, ’cause my parents got
a divorce, and then two months later my real mom died. And I feel like he brought her into my 
life.
ERHARD
Is what you’re feeling badly about...
JANE
But my mom loves me. I’m glad for half the things she does. But at the time I thought, “she’s 
such a bitch, why is she doing this?” And I wanted to just run away. Now I realize she loved me, 
and that she wasn’t trying to replace my real mom.
ERHARD
Good. It doesn’t mean that your mother is not weird. Because we’re all weird, right, you’ve seen
that in here. But your mother loves you, and she’s weird. With your mother, it’s got to be that 
she’s all right just like she is. I didn’t say she was right to be the way she is. My mother didn’t do 
the stupid things she did with me because she loved me. She did the stupid things she did with
me because she was stupid. And she loved me. It’s not that she was right. So you’ve got a little
bit of a ploy in there about making your mother right for the way she is, you all. So, any better 
sense of what that sadness is? Does it have to do with your mother and father’s divorce?
JANE
I don’t remember that.
ERHARD
Does it have to do with your mother dying?
ontological inquiry—the kind of speaking that evokes Being—occurs 
as something to turn away from, to try to leap over. 
Indeed, Heidegger is emphatic about the centrality of our 
facticity in determining our existence. Our mood, our state-of-
mind, the way we understand our world—from the phenomeno-
logical perspective—those are the facts: “[M]ood brings Dasein 
before the ‘that-it-is’ of its ‘there,’ which, as such, stares it in 
the face with the inexorability of an enigma.” Even if Dasein 
strives for “rational enlightenment,” tries for a detached stand-
point, and tells himself that, really, it’s just a mood—“all this
counts for nothing as against the phenomenal facts of the case”
(BT 175
T
).
Hubert Dreyfus, in his reading of Being and Time, chooses to
translate Heidegger’s Befindlichkeit as aff ectedness rather than state-
t
of-mind. The latter phrase, he feels, suggests a private subjective 
mental state, when what Heidegger is distinguishing is Dasein’s 
“being found in a situation where things and options already matter” 
(Being In The World 168). This is an important point. In our thrown-
d
ness, things are encountered as already and always meaningful:
Letting something be encountered is primarily
circumspective; it is not just sensing some-
thing, or staring at it. It implies circumspec-
tive concern, and has the character of becom-
ing aff ected in some way. . . . Being-in as such 
has been determined existentially beforehand
in such a manner that what it encounters
within-the-world can “matter” to it in this
way. (BT 176)
“
Heidegger’s point is that our moods, like our states of mind, are 
not the subjective individual phenomena found in a Cartesian 
model of human being. For Heidegger, a mood “comes neither 
from the ‘outside’ or ‘inside,’ but arises out of Being-in-the-world, 
as a way of such Being” (BT 176
T
). 
Our thrown way of being is not one that we could make
explicit or theorize. It is not based upon beliefs, and human 


=== END OF PAGE 174 ===