=== PAGE 207 ===

Forum Day Three: Session One
193
ERHARD
Stick around. It’s not over yet.
The Forum leader, Wes, now came onto the platform.  Erhard remained in the room.
WES
Good morning. We’re going to do the letters now. What do you think the purpose of this 
assignment was? The results of The Forum are not something deep inside yourself. Here’s 
what’s deep inside yourself: gunk, blood, undigested food. There’s no place deep inside yourself 
where life’s really happening. It’s important to get this because you’ve got to know where The 
Forum takes place to have The Forum be eff ective for you. You need to know where The Forum 
occurs so you can have it occur powerfully. Okay, here’s the hard part: where does The 
Forum occur? 
(pointing to his mouth)
The Forum occurs right here. The Forum occurs in languaging. That’s where The Forum 
occurs. It doesn’t occur where you thought it occurred. The Forum occurs in a conversation, 
which becomes you, or it doesn’t. How do people keep getting results one to two years after The 
Forum? Generating the conversation is how you make The Forum eff ective ongoingly. What 
you want to master is what occurs in being able to say and listen what The Forum is. Ultimately, 
The Forum occurs in your ability to say it—to say the possibility which it is. To those who didn’t 
do the assignment, who didn’t write the letter: You blew it. Listen to what people share: You 
could’ve gotten that.
A Japanese woman, Ayako, rose to share her letter addressed to one of her parents: she had come to 
The Forum to make a career decision, but found herself discovering that her racket is “being nice,” 
and that this was what was in the way. She stopped reading to explain to Wes the circumstances 
behind her letter.
WES
You want your letter to be so clear it doesn’t need to be explained. You should’ve put that in 
your letter.
AYAKO
I’m confused. I’m in the gap between living in the US and having a Japanese background. 
WES
You don’t sound confused to me. You may be disempowering yourself to call it confusion. Not 
knowing like a possibility may be a very powerful place to be in life. One of the most powerful 
places to be in life is to let be “not knowing.”
 
(to the group)
I invite you to stop being confused.


=== END OF PAGE 207 ===