=== PAGE 171 ===

 
 
Forum Day Two: Session Three 
157
PARTICIPANT
Can you have more than one act?
ERHARD
Yes. I don’t say you won’t do your old number again. I just say you’re left with a possibility 
beyond your old number. Being related is enormously risky. I don’t care what fairy-tale bullshit
you bought into. You’re going to get hurt being related.
(to the group)
There are no answers to being successfully related. And you, assholes, have been looking for the
answer to being successfully related. That’s why you’re assholes. There’s a way to be empowered 
and enabled in the face of the risk that being related is. You can bring power and ability to the
risk. You can’t bring answers. There are no formulae, no ten easy steps. Okay. We need to do this 
about three times.
Kipp now took the lead in the interactions with participants, but Erhard remained in the conversa-
tion, wandering around at the back of the room and sometimes taking over an interaction that Kipp 
had begun. 
ERHARD
See, you’re so thrown to the story that you tell the story about the racket, and that will nev-
er give you anything beyond your racket. That’s what the structure of the distinction racket 
is for, to break up the story. You die without knowing who you are if you live your life for
approval.
(regarding one participant’s persistent back pain)
You think people are really built that badly?
PARTICIPANT
My racket is I’m scared of doing it wrong. That doesn’t sound right.
ERHARD
That’s a very frequent payoff—avoid the domination of being responsible for. That’s a very 
childish concern, but that’s where your racket comes from. Kids’ rackets are avoiding the 
domination of being responsible. You are going to be a little boy or little girl until you com-
plete your relationship with your parents. You are not going to grow up until you complete 
your relationship with your parents. You are not going to get away with it. I happen to have 
had a mother who never made a mistake... only one. I’ll tell you what that was later. This
is one that I know about deeply and profoundly. You are not ever going to make it until
your parents make it with you. No kidding. You just got to get off it with your parents. I’ve 
spent most of my life engaged in this question about what it is to be human. What is it that 
Moods are not accompanying phenomena;
rather, they are the sort of thing that deter-
mine Being-with-one-another in advance. It
seems as if, so to speak, a mood is in each case
already there, like an atmosphere, in which 
we are steeped and by which we are thor-
oughly determined. It not only seems as if this 
were so, it is so; and in light of these facts, it is 
necessary to dispense with the psychology of 
feelings and experiences and consciousness. 
(Being in the World 171)
“
Observes Dreyfus: “Heidegger would no doubt appreciate the fact 
that we ordinarily say we are in a mood, not that a mood is an
experience in us.”
Having participated in, and observed, a number of Forums, we 
know from personal experience that the process can be seen as a 
roller-coaster of mood shift s. Erhard tells the participants on the
first day that they should bring their current moods into The Fo-
rum with them, and not try to fix them; so the moods of the partici-
pants are of course at some level individual, though not subjective, 
with each participant Being-in-his-or-her-own-world.
But in conjunction with our analysis of Being-with (in the
sidebar with that title in Session One of Day Two), and in light of 
our own experience of The Forum, we raise this point about the
nature of social moods. We do so to contrast such moods with the
collective sense of aff inity that inevitably accompanies The Forum
transformation. 
Heidegger’s distinction of the publicness of the they-self is 
presented as an aspect of Dasein’s fleeing its authentic self. Public-
ness, in that context, characterizes the levelling-down of Dasein’s
possibilities to the average, in the service of its flight from authen-
ticity. We assert that the general mood in The Forum, through its
roller-coaster changes to its ebullient finish, is an aspect of what 
it means for the authentic self to appropriate its own inauthentic-
ity, and it diverges greatly from the levelling down the publicness


=== END OF PAGE 171 ===