=== PAGE 484 ===

470
SPEAKING BEING
I fi rst started doing this work I’d get up in front of people and they’d send me up notes saying, 
“You are a disgusting person. Get off  it.” But I didn’t know how. And two things allowed me to 
get off  it. I gave my word to be a Forum leader. And the people in this room didn’t give up on 
me. They were more committed to me than I was. 
Kipp then set up for the seminar enrollment. A number of people in The Forum group—many of 
them WE&A staff  and Forum leaders—stood and moved to the enrolment tables that were placed 
around the room. There followed a period of about 45 minutes during which participants could 
register for a seminar series.
At the conclusion of the enrollment period, participants returned to their seats. It was 9:00 pm. 
Werner Erhard was on the platform.
ERHARD
Okay, as you know, we’re at the second half of The Forum now. Everybody clear about that? 
We’ve done enough going backwards; we’re starting to move forward. Nick?
NICK
You know this thing about mucking around in the swamp at the bottom of the Valley of the 
Shadow of Death: I’ve been swimming there for the past couple of months. The thing that I 
came face to face with was that I was afraid that I was a nobody. But it was more than being 
afraid, it was actually being a nobody. Last night we were driving home and I was sharing with...
ERHARD
Whatever you’re afraid you might be, you are, by virtue of being afraid that you might be. Not 
like you are for real. Whatever it is that you can’t be owns you.
NICK
When I was a kid, I had a great childhood, and I had a great friend. My memory of it was... like it 
was telepathy. We were completely, totally, absolutely related to each other. One time we both wore 
shorts, we both got cowboy boots for Christmas, and we walked around with them on the wrong 
feet, and had the best time, always together. We were almost never not together. I ate dinner at his 
house, he ate dinner at my house. And then one day during the summer between kindergarten 
and fi rst grade, his mother told me they were going to move and I was never going to see him 
again. I didn’t quite understand what that meant. One day they loaded everything up in a truck 
and a station wagon, and he got in the car and they pulled away and I never saw him again. In this 
work on rackets I was looking for this decision that I made, and it wasn’t a decision like something 
I could see happening. It was more like pulling out a tablecloth from under everything on the 
table. Everything was the same but it was suddenly diff erent. Completely diff erent. I knew there 
was something wrong. But it wasn’t like there was something wrong. There was something wrong. 
ERHARD
Nick has told this clearly enough that you can get it. I don’t know if you can picture it or not, 
but the scenery is all the same. All the scenery is the same except there’s something wrong.
KIPP (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 484 ===