=== PAGE 187 ===

Forum Day Three: Session One
173
stand back a bit and watch it think. You think you’re limited to what it thinks. But that’s it 
thinking. It has thought you into a lot of pain and suff ering, unhappiness, and dissatisfaction. 
And it has a purpose, like a machine. It is designed in-order-to. It is not designed in order 
to leave you with love, fulfi llment, and full self-expression. Have you got any idea what it’s 
designed in-order-to? It’s designed in order to make you look good. That’s its design function.
(in the aisle among the group)
And it uses thinking and feeling, interpretations, what you believe to be true, in order to make 
you look good. It utilizes and organizes those elements and generates those elements in a form 
designed to make you look good. What does it mean to look good? Well, specifi cally, it means 
to make you right and others wrong, to foster your dominating and to avoid the domination 
of anything else. And it uses your thinking and your feelings, and your perceptions and your 
interpretations, conclusions, etc., to justify yourself; except yourself and it have become one. 
You have identifi ed with it. You are an it; you are an anybody. What makes you an anybody 
is you identify with it. You identify with its thinking and its feeling, and that makes you an 
anybody, and the costs are love, happiness, and self-expression. It thinks and you have its 
thoughts, and it thinks in order to make you look good, and what it costs you to identify with it 
is love, happiness, vitality, and self-expression. 
BETTY
I think the thing that hit me the strongest was the racket. When I could identify my racket and 
my reason for allowing things to take place in my life and receive the cost that I received from it, 
was the identifi cation of breaking through the barrier of all of this. I felt like this ton of bricks 
was lifted from my shoulders, being able to acknowledge that. And I realize what I was doing...
ERHARD
See—hold on. It doesn’t think like that. What she’s speaking doesn’t have anything to do with 
looking good, does it? As a matter of fact if you were real concerned with looking good you 
would never say what she just said. You can’t say what she just said without thinking, because it 
might make you look bad. Go on.
BETTY
I realized the cost that I was paying for the racket I was having. 
ERHARD
Running. You run a racket.
BETTY
The racket I was running. In allowing myself to be used for acceptance.
ERHARD
Kipp and I may have to go home and let her do this. That’s extraordinarily powerful to 
recognize that your life doesn’t belong to you. That it’s using your life for its purposes. And its 
confronted as the “it” which we have been sent, becomes “us.”
The “giant cybernetic system,” to use Hubert Dreyfus’ s phrase, 
has thereby been set in motion: “We don’t produce the clearing. 
The clearing produces us” (“Gaining a Free Relationship to
Technology,” Applied Heidegger Conference).
We have become both the “it” which acts in-order-to, and, as 
the they-self/identity, one of those entities which is subject to the 
in-order-to of the “it.” Erhard has summarized the result of this 
system:
“
When you are that you are the identity “I”—when
you are that you are that—and you couple that 
with what “it” is up to, you get a very powerful 
look into how this what-it’s-up-to is translated
into our everyday way of Being-in-the-world, 
into our everyday engagement with our everyday
concerns. What “it” is concerned with, once 
you are that you are it. . . what “it” is up to is 
making you right. . . and making anything else by
contrast wrong. (“The Heart of the Matter”)
In Being and Time, the in-order-to is also shown by Heidegger 
to be a central element of the existential structure of Dasein. As we 
have shown elsewhere, Dasein is always in the world in such a way
that it is concerned about things—getting them done, producing
d
them, giving them up, considering them, and so forth (BT 83–84,
T
96)—and our understanding of the world is mediated through
these concerns (see the sidebar “Concern” during Session Four 
of Day One). Heidegger calls the things we encounter in this way
equipment, and in-order-to is a characteristic of equipment: 
“
Equipment is essentially ‘something in-order-
to. . . .’ A totality of equipment is constituted
by various ways of the ‘in-order-to,’ such 
as serviceability, conduciveness, usability,
manipulability. [. . .] Dealings with equipment
subordinate themselves to the manifold 
assignments of the ‘in-order-to.’ (BT 97, 98)
T


=== END OF PAGE 187 ===