=== PAGE 215 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Two 201
commitments of The Forum is to unconceal the entire design of human being. Something very 
powerful occurs, transformation occurs when you can actually be present to the design: human 
being. What we want to confront, near the source of the design “human being,” is what is your 
fundamental point of view and relationship to life? Life is really composed of other people. 
What we’re really asking is, what’s the fundamental relationship to other people?
At this point, Wes called two participants to come to the chalkboards.
WES
We’re going to start with the question, what is the fundamental point of view of human beings 
for life? Your fundamental point of view toward life occurs in a very simple statement. I’m not 
interested in your complicated philosophies. Call out, “Life is —”  
The group began calling out responses, and as they did so, the two participants at the boards wrote 
the answers: hard, change, imperfect, me, a problem, survival, dangerous, fun, experiences, etc.
WES
When you’re being in life, what’s really there? 
Various participants called out: “Imperfect. Hard. Quest for knowledge. Change. Problem. Me. 
Evolvement. Survival. Dangerous. Not fair. Getting by. Threatening. Fun. Continual state of 
learning...”
WES
A lot of this is bullshit—When you’re being in life. “Continual state of learning” is conceptual. 
That’s not you walking down the street having to deal with the street. See, there’s you, and 
there’s it... everything else. Isn’t that a fundamental division? There’s you and then there’s “it.” I 
want to know your relationship to “it.” When you’re present to you and “it,” what’s there, like a 
presence?
People continued to call out answers which were written on the board: I’ll show it, impressing 
it, struggle, approval, hide from it, it’s fucked and I’ll never fi x it, separation, dealing with stupid 
people, life can hurt you, etc. 
WES (continuing)
Your relationship to “it” is struggle, and “it” is going to win. It will. You don’t live like that. 
“It” is bigger. You’re going to die. Your life is about a relationship to “it,” to prevent dying, and 
“it” is going to win. You don’t live like that. You know it. People forget how they originated. 
You’re dealing with “it,” but in a way that you’re going to lose. The fundamental point of 
view upon emerging into noise and cold and pain at birth: life is about avoiding the threat. 
Life is dangerous. It’s threatening. Life is a threat. How do you respond? Survive. Life is about 
surviving the threat that life is. That’s the already always way it is. That’s what you inherited. 
That’s what you joined. You didn’t choose it. And you are it. Some of you are dealing with 
danger by getting “its” approval. Some of you are dealing with danger by fl attering “it.” Some 
Dasein constantly surrenders itself to the
‘world’ and lets the ‘world’ “matter” to it in
such a way that somehow Dasein evades its 
very self. (
f
BT 178, emphasis added)
“
Attunements disclose thrownness in such a way as to conceal it; 
thrownness is disclosed in the manner of an evasive turning-away 
(BT 175). It’s there but we don’t want to look. 
Closely related to an attunement is a mood, which may be 
seen as the attunement’s affective dimension—the ontic 
manifestation in human experience of an ontological condition 
that remains in the background. We are never free of moods, 
whether intense or pallid. But nothing like a mood could occur 
for us, says Heidegger, 
if Being-in-the-world, with its state-of-mind 
[Befindlichkeit], had not already submitted 
itself to having entities within-the-world “mat-
ter” to it in a way which its moods have outlined 
in advance. (BT 177, emphasis added)
“
A mood arises from an attunement. So while we generally ascribe 
the cause of a mood to the circumstances, Heidegger suggests that 
we always already have a relationship with the world that evokes 
our particular moods. Our unwillingness to confront this situation 
leaves us stuck as the victim of the circumstances. It leaves us 
going through the motions of a life that is not our own, and thus 
we are immersed in an inauthentic existence.
But in certain attunements, Heidegger saw the possibility for 
an authentic human experience of Being. Some moods, he saw, 
have more significant potential for prompting such a disclosive 
experience. The prerequisite is that the mood evoke a shift  of focus: 
we must become present to the world, rather than to those specific 
things in the world with which we are concerned.
Generally, in our everyday preoccupations, we seem to “cling 
to this or that particular being.” But at some level, says Heidegger, 
we are always dealing with beings as a whole. This does not mean 
assuming a detached “objective” stance toward the populace; it is 
rather an element of our attunements: 


=== END OF PAGE 215 ===