=== PAGE 139 ===

 
 
Forum Day Two: Session Two 
125
LOUISE (continuing to object)t
Apes and dogs have language. So do rocks.
ERHARD
If everything’s got language there’s nothing to talk about, because nothing’s distinguished.
LOUISE
They are diff erent languages.
ERHARD
You’re making yourself stupid. You’re a fucking Californian. It’s that hundredth monkey shit. 
You denigrate the great mysteries when you turn them into crap. Apes don’t have language. It’s
true that apes signal. But they don’t communicate. Rocks bump into each other, and animals 
have a fancy form of bumping. But animals don’t have language, they have signals. Whatever it 
is we’re distinguishing with the word language, it’s what human beings do. Apes don’t dwell in 
possibility. To dwell in possibility you’ve got to have what I call language. I’m asserting some-
thing, and you can’t prove an assertion. You can disprove an assertion but you can’t prove it.
You can validate an assertion, and there’s a lot of evidence for that one. You can move without 
language. Rocks move all the time. One distinguishes by an operation in language in which pos-
sibility is generated. And it’s generated by speaking and listening, and by what’s present without
being said by virtue of what is said. Let me give you an example.
(addressing The Forum Supervisor)r
Julie, give me some water please? She doesn’t come up and throw a bucket of water on me.
(to the group)
Where the hell is “in a bucket” or “in a glass”? It’s not in your brain. It’s in the conversation. 
One of the possibilities in the domain of possibility called language is possibility itself. Two was 
distinguished in the conversation we had for distinguishing distinction.
(moving to the chalkboard and drawing a series of marks)
Is this two?
LOUISE
It’s two.
(grouping the marks with two enclosing outlines)
Now it occurs as two. Two is there if you’ve got the possibility “two.” There’s an infi nite number 
of ways to make that “two.”
LOUISE
But how do you do it?
ERHARD
It arises in language. Do you know how to ride a bicycle?
One distinguishes by an operation in language 
in which possibility is generated. And it’s 
generated by speaking and listening, and by 
what’s present without being said by virtue of 
what is said.
“


=== END OF PAGE 139 ===