=== PAGE 431 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
417
WES
And your solutions to problems, as rackets, are repetitive.
DONALD
I got another repetition. My mother never graduated from high school. She went to work 
instead. She wanted us to go to university. It was a big thing in our family to go to university. 
My mother really wanted all eleven of us to go to university, and I made my mother wrong by 
dropping out. And so I get to be uneducated, to continue to make my mother wrong, and Dad
in there too. And so when she writes me letters... and tells me about my sister’s grades—like I 
don’t give a shit about my sister—I wish she’d stop reminding me of her being about education,
because really she’s wrong. I really didn’t need to do that... So does that mean that in every prob-
lem that I have, I can see where I’m making someone wrong?
WES
Yeah. 
DONALD
And if something happens, like if I lose my wallet, that’s not a problem and there’s no charge on
it, I could just go back to the store where I lost my wallet and get it back. So when something’s
there, there always has to be a lie for there to be stuckness...
WES
And whenever you lie, you lie for a purpose, to make someone or something wrong, to avoid the
domination of, to win, or to justify something: That’s why you lie. You lie to avoid the domina-
tion of something, someone, make someone wrong or make yourself right, win, avoid losing 
and justify yourself and invalidating others. That’s why people lie. That’s the whole point of it.
DONALD
I caught myself lying on Wednesday, on Day One of this Forum, and I forget what process we 
were sharing about, but I was saying that the airlines had messed up my fl ight, but what hap-
pened was more like a dance with the changing schedules.
WES
You were more committed to moving through the stops than you were to making something
wrong. If you were more committed to making something wrong, then that is what you would
have been engaged in, and you would have ended up with the problems that most people have. 
DONALD
I was so committed to having it work that I called the offi  ce here in San Francisco to get the 
address to send my bags here in case the fl ight got canceled again. I was committed to just have 
it work. But then at the same time, I lied about it on the phone, complaining to someone that I
was stuck in Denver for three hours.


=== END OF PAGE 431 ===