=== PAGE 123 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session One 
109
response to that is sympathy. Awww, you poor thing. Marsha, thank you very much. And you
want to be clear that when Marsha sits down some of what didn’t resolve for her while she was 
standing up, although she was pretty complete about that, the rest of that will resolve for her.
See it’s like a house of cards: when you take one of the cards out, the whole thing falls down.
That whole thing that’s tied together begins to break apart. There’s more attached to that, that
Marsha didn’t tell us. She hasn’t looked all the way through it, and doesn’t want to be up there
for a half hour telling the whole thing. She already gave you one insight. Anger was related to
“people don’t like me.” And “I’m angry at people for not liking me.” So you fi nd the anger and
see that what’s attached to that is “people don’t like me.” And what’s attached to that is I’ve got 
to be likeable, and then you get really good at being likeable. Not in some cheap sense, not with 
smoke and mirrors; earned like. She produced the results, earned the contribution. Put out the
energy. And she’s gotten really good at it.
(moving among the participants on the fl oor)
The problem is that when it’s there in order to avoid not being liked, about which I’m angry...
Accomplishment doesn’t leave you nurtured. That’s why they have happy hours after work. The
way people relate to their job, accomplishment in their job doesn’t nurture them.
(turning to a participant who had been standing the entire time)
JODIE
Interesting how much things have changed since I stood up.
ERHARD
Amazing, right?
JODIE
Looking good rules my life: completely and utterly.
ERHARD
If you haven’t seen yet that looking good owns your life... if you haven’t seen that yet... I prom-
ise you that that’s the case. You may not have seen it yet. So you don’t know that it is the case. 
Like I said, I don’t know the truth, but I’m also not a guy in a diner about this, not a guy with 
an opinion. If you haven’t seen this you want to be listening up. Like Mike and I were saying,
you want to listen to this like a possibility...that when Jodie’s fi nished, you want to stand in the 
possibility that you don’t own your life, that your life doesn’t belong to you. Yeah, you’ve got 
this arrogant façade that you run your life and call the shots. Listen to Jodie’s sharing out of this 
possibility: to see how your life is shaped by looking good. And the quality of your life is that
of a life devoted to looking good. Your actions are limited to the span of action being given by 
looking good. Stand in that possibility when Jodie is fi nished.
JODIE
What also came up from yesterday when you talked about concept and experience and rein-
forcing each other, my whole life is, that I’ve got to look good and if I don’t look good it doesn’t
Heidegger specifies other characteristics of the “they” which 
thereby become aspects of our everydayness. First, because we 
generally encounter others in the context of our everyday con-
cerns—the competitive environment of the workplace, as well as 
the social and political realms—we experience “constant care as 
to the way one diff ers from them, whether one’s own Dasein has 
lagged behind the Others and wants to catch up in relationship
to them, or whether one’s Dasein has priority over them and sets 
out to keep them suppressed” (BT 164–165). As this complex of 
T
concerns takes Dasein over, the withness of Being-with-Others is
interrupted:
“
 The care about this distance between them is 
disturbing to Being-with-one-another, though 
this disturbance is one that is hidden from 
it. If we may express this existentially, such 
Being-with-one-another has the character of 
distantiality. (BT 164)
Further, since the “they” is everyone and no one, it is characterized 
as well by averageness:
“
 Thus the “they” maintains itself factically 
in the averageness of that which belongs to 
it, of that which it regards as valid and that
which it does not, and of that to which it grants 
success and that to which it denies it. In this 
averageness with which it prescribes what 
can and may be ventured, it keeps watch over 
everything exceptional that thrusts itself to 
the fore. Every kind of priority gets noiseless-
ly suppressed. Overnight, everything that is 
primordial gets glossed over as something that 
has long been well known. Everything gained 
by a struggle becomes just something to be
manipulated. Every secret loses its force. This 
care of averageness reveals in turn an essential 
tendency of Dasein which we call the “levelling 
down” of all possibilities of Being. (BT 165)


=== END OF PAGE 123 ===