=== PAGE 232 ===

218
SPEAKING BEING
“I can’t not in-order-to.” I didn’t invent in-order-to; “Making it” invented me. They had that party 
and I got there late. And they said what it is to be a human being, the kind of being a human being 
is, is attempting to make it, to look good. That’s what it is to be a human being. And everything 
you’re going to do is going to be that. See, you started out this conversation in a great place and there 
have been a few changes since then. And when we’re done with this conversation we’re going to be 
in a great place and then go through even more changes. ‘Cause you’ll have a new kind of making it. 
For some people in this room, “making it” is not making it. They make it by not making it. It’s a trap. 
It’s a fucking trap. That’s what it is to be human. The other side of it is, all those balls and chains I 
was carrying around for years, they all dropped. You know, I was sad for a while, but then I got the 
joke. It’s all a joke. You’re not going to make it. You know what? It isn’t going to work out. It is not 
going to work out. You will never meditate enough, or work hard enough, or have your fortune told 
enough, or get enough information, or be smart enough, or be holy enough, or practice enough, or 
say your prayers enough, or be sexy enough, old enough, young enough, or think enough, or tough 
enough to make it. See, some people are trying to survive. That’s also a joke. You’re going to die and 
they’re going to stick you in a hole in the ground and throw dirt in your face. It is not going to work 
out. That’s how survival is going to work out. You’re going to keep climbing the ladder and keep 
climbing the ladder and at the top of the ladder, there’s going to be a hole there, and they’re going to 
stick you in there and throw dirt in your face. And that’s how survival is going to work out. It is not 
going to work out. It is not going to work out. You are never going to make enough of a diff erence to 
make a diff erence. You are always not going to have made a diff erence enough. It isn’t going to turn 
out. This is the whole Forum, you might as well get it. The rest is just polish. 
Erhard spoke very slowly and deliberately to the group at this point.
ERHARD (continuing)
It is not going to turn out. And you know why it’s not going to turn out? Because it already 
turned out. This is how it turned out. Nobody notices that. You made it. This is it. It’s not 
gonna turn out. It did turn out. This is the way it turned out. And you fucked it up. You’re still 
struggling. What would it mean if you did make a diff erence? So what? You make a diff erence. 
Okay fi ne, so what? 
TONY
It’s “so what?” because...
ERHARD
No “because.” Don’t fuck it up with “because.” It’s “so what?” because this is what’s so. That’s 
why it’s “so what?” It’s just like this. This is how it turned out. You don’t like that, do you? You 
didn’t want it to turn out this way. It wasn’t supposed to turn out like this, it was supposed to 
turn out some other way. Too bad. This is the way it turned out. It doesn’t care that you don’t 
like it. 
TONY
There’s still something up for me. 
The inauthenticity arises not from the situation, but from Dasein’s 
way of being with this situation. 
Choosing: Appropriating
And here we encounter one of Heidegger’s most important reversals 
of everyday thinking, a move that has been central in Werner Erhard’s 
rhetorical technology since its inception. 
In our tradition, if one finds oneself stuck in a process generated 
by choices one did not make, the action indicated by the situation 
is clearly the making of new choices. But consider Heidegger’s 
alternative and somewhat tricky perspective:
This process can be reversed only if Dasein
specifically brings itself back to itself from its 
lostness in the “they.” But this bringing-back
must have that kind of Being by the neglect of 
which Dasein has lost itself in inauthenticity.
(BT 312–313)
“
What has Dasein neglected? It has neglected to choose; therefore, it 
must make up for not choosing. But “‘making up’ for not choosing 
signifies choosing to make this choice”—that is, choosing to make 
the choice not to choose. “In choosing to make this choice, Dasein 
makes possible, first and foremost, its authentic potentiality-for-
Being” (BT 313).
ERHARD (continuing)
The “they” has always kept Dasein from taking
hold of these possibilities of Being. The “they”
even hides the manner in which it has tacitly
relieved Dasein of the burden of explicitly
choosing these possibilities. It remains indef-
inite who has “really” done the choosing. So
Dasein makes no choices, gets carried along by
the nobody, and thus ensnares itself in inau-
thenticity. (BT 312)
“


=== END OF PAGE 232 ===