=== PAGE 526 ===

512
SPEAKING BEING
luminously in the course of the dialogue.” The Japanese inquirer said “Our dialogues with our 
teacher failed to turn out so well. Us younger men challenged him much too directly to satisfy 
our thirst for handy information.” ... “Thirst for knowledge and greed for explanations never 
lead to a thinking inquiry. Curiosity is always the concealed arrogance of a self-consciousness 
that banks on a self-invented rationality.” 
(to the group)
You remember I told you that that means we treat anything worth knowing as something 
that merely extends from what we already know and that if we don’t immediately understand 
something it must be bullshit. 
(continuing to read)
“The will to know does not will to abide in hope before what is worthy of thought.”
(to the group)
What you and I just spoke about in the last two hours is worth standing in front of. You may not 
get it all, which means you may not understand it all, which really means you may not be able 
to apply it all, and your applying it will only denigrate it anyhow. Much better to stand with it, 
to be with it.
WALT
So I’m way beyond what I understood before. I’m standing on a beach ball here, ready to lose 
my balance. But it’s a good place to be. I understood you to tell us that the forwarding of this is 
in declaration, that declaration is the way to access this? 
ERHARD
Declaration is the action out of which possibility is generated: the speech act out of which 
possibility is generated; it’s the name of the speech act out of which possibility arises.
WALT
So that’s what a person can do, in doing, to work with this.
ERHARD
Yeah, to generate a possibility. Precisely.
WALT
But the possibility, this possibility that’s created, is itself not useful, or applicable, but it sounds 
“opportunity” somehow gets created.
ERHARD
There’s an opening. A freedom. There’s a freedom for that which you have declared possible. It 
doesn’t mean you will—it means that there’s a freedom for that which you’ve declared possible, 
that your actions may arise inside that possibility, and that your actions will arise inside that 
possibility. We’re not done yet. We’ve got one last step to take.
“the essence of all history is determined” (“QCT” in BW 329). Here 
Dreyfus recounts the historical record:
In the Christian age, everything showed up as
God’s creation, and showed up in terms of its
nearness or distance from God’s own nature.
In the modern age, everything showed up as
either a subject with a deep essence, or an ob-
ject with fixed properties. In the technological
age, by contrast, everything shows up in light
of what will allow us to put it to “the greatest 
possible use at the lowest expenditure.” (Com-
panion to Heidegger 13)
“
Heidegger refers to this historical evolution of destining as the 
play of Being. Being holds itself back in a particular way in each 
epoch, and it is in the progress of the epochs that the play of Being 
is manifested. The order of that play defies human understanding 
and control: “The sequence of epochs in the destiny of Being is not 
accidental, nor can it be calculated as necessary” (OTB 9). It plays. 
Therefore enframing can be seen from one perspective as the 
essence of modern technology, while from another it is simply the 
particular clearing for unconcealment which the play of Being has 
sent at this moment in history.
At this point, the reader may notice herself thinking some 
version of “So what?” Yes, we can see the eff ects of technology 
in our world. We overuse our gadgets and texting while driving is 
dangerous and our interpersonal eye contact is suff ering. 
But at the same time global communication and the conveniences 
of everyday living have improved exponentially, and marginalized 
groups around the globe have found a voice through social media 
that have also shaken the foundations of local, national, and world 
politics. Every advance brings its challenges. We can deal with it.
Perhaps. Certainly, the advantages are undeniable. But the 
threat embedded in technology’s essence may make this one 
advance too far. With each development in the play of Being, we 
are moving farther and farther from the possibility of an originary 
experience of Being: “The epochs overlap each other in their 
ERHARD (continuing to read)


=== END OF PAGE 526 ===