=== PAGE 428 ===

414
SPEAKING BEING
comes from me and my speaking. So here’s what there is to get: all your problems as stucknesses 
are lies. All your problems as stucknesses are lies. All the presentation of the stuff  there, that’s 
not a lie. “I want to go to the beach and I don’t have time”: That’s not a lie and it’s not a problem. 
GRACE
Right.
WES
Any time you fi nd yourself stuck. Not moving. That’s bullshit. You’ve lied. Wake up! The stuck is the
lie. It comes from the—not the use of the word “but”—this is not about take every “but” out of your
language—this is about: Appreciate what you’re presenting in the problem, with “but,” or whatever
you use. Whenever you try to make things opposing and put yourself at the eff ect of them, there’s a lie 
there and you’re doing it, and the lie is that you’re not doing it. The lie is: You’re not doing it when you 
really are. That’s the lie. Nothing is inherently stuck in life. Life’s moving along fi ne. You see that?
GRACE
Yes.
As Grace sat Donald raised his hand and stood up again. 
DONALD
So if I say “I want to lose weight, but I hate dieting,” there’s a lie there. It’s like saying “I want to 
lose weight and you’re wearing a black vest.” Or “I want to lose weight and Vaclav Havel is the 
president of Yugoslavia.”
WES
Yeah, it’s that crazy, really. Why would anybody be so crazy as to do that?
DONALD
To be a victim.
WES
Not just victim, but to be a racketeer.
DONALD
So if I say “I’m overweight because my mother used to make fritters,” that’s the same lie.
WES
Yeah.
DONALD
Like “I’m overweight because you’re wearing a black sweater.” But the reason I blame my mother, 
say, when I don’t like dieting, is because I’ve...
So there’s this enormous body of superstition
about accomplishment and failure which has 
nothing whatsoever to do with accomplish-
ment or failure. It’s merely the drift . . . . I want
you to see that in many ways you are a drift  
for yourself. You have a certain drift . The tide
comes in, you go this way; the tide goes out,
you go that way. So in many ways, you your-
self are a part of the drift  for you yourself. 
“
Now if this one drift s into the other one, they
impact each other. But that’s all part of the
drift , yes? Your relationships drift . They’ve got
a life of their own. Projects drift , they’ve got 
a life of their own. When I’m considering the
distinction “accomplishment,” my question is,
what impacts the drift ?
“
The distinction is teased out in the subsequent dialogue between
Erhard and the seminar participants. Some of what appears here 
in embryonic form would later be developed in the Being a Leader 
Course (http://beingaleader.net) Erhard has developed together 
with Michael Jensen (Professor Emeritus of Economics at the 
Harvard Business School), Steve Zaff ron (CEO of the Vanto Group),
Kari Granger (Fellow, Center For Character and Leadership Devel-
opment, United States Air Force Academy), and Jeri Echeverria 
(Professor and Provost Emerita for the California State University,
Fresno). The next sidebar presents an excerpt from the pre-course
readings for the Being a Leader Course (from 2015). ■
WES (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 428 ===