=== PAGE 490 ===

476
SPEAKING BEING
counter—commonsensical, counter—“what everybody knows” thing: I’m saying “no, that’s 
not the source of action.” We’re going to do a demonstration to see if we can actually get some 
insight into the true source of action. What we need is somebody who’s clumsy. 
Erhard called on a participant named Ellen, who then mounted the platform.
ERHARD
Thank you. You’ve got to be a little brave to be clumsy, because clumsy is not in.
ELLEN
That’s my racket.
ERHARD
We’re going to play catch in order to demonstrate clumsy, okay?
Erhard and Ellen stood at opposite ends of the platform. Erhard began to toss her a tennis ball. She 
caught it several times.
ERHARD
I’m going to make it a little bit harder, because you’re less clumsy than you thought. And they 
need to see “clumsy,” so I’m going to bounce the ball in front of you.
Erhard bounced the ball in front of her, and after a few times, she failed to catch the ball to laughter 
from the group.
(continuing)
Wait, wait, wait. Missing the ball is not “clumsy.” That’s just missing the ball. The way you deal 
with the ball, that’s where clumsy is... Now we’re going to stop playing catch. We’re going to 
play a new game called “Which way is the ball spinning?” So you’re going to tell me which way 
the ball is spinning, and it doesn’t make any diff erence whether you catch the ball this time or 
not. 
Erhard threw the ball repeatedly. Ellen caught it some of the time and missed it some. Each time she 
reported which way the ball had been spinning, and then tossed it back each time. 
(continuing)
So you did that demonstration perfectly. Thank you, you’re wonderful. 
Ellen returned to her seat, and Erhard addressed the group. 
(continuing)
I started to throw the ball in places that were uncomfortable for her. She also started to use 
her body, and to step back to make it easier to catch, instead of stepping forward, which is an 
inappropriate reaction but a natural one for someone to whom the ball appears uncatchable. 
standing-forth; it alone also preserves beings
in their constancy. Where struggle ceases, be-
ings indeed do not disappear, but world turns
away. . . . Beings now become just something
one comes across; they are findings. [. . .] To be 
sure, beings are still given. The motley mass of 
beings is given more noisily and broadly than
ever before; but Being has deserted them. (IM
68-69)
“
Language is the house of Being, so language is the site of the 
struggle. Being deserts beings when their Saying becomes only 
talking, a speaking “in which no world is worlding any more. . .  
That which originally holds sway, physis, now degenerates into a 
prototype for reproduction and copying” (IM 68-69). 
Here Heidegger distinguishes two ways in which appearing 
may be understood, which we examined in “The Drift ” sidebar in 
Session Two of Day Four, and which we repeat here in an attempt 
to open up the space newly: “First, appearing denotes the self-
gathering event of bringing-itself-to-stand and thus standing in 
gatheredness. But then, appearing also means: as something 
that is already standing there, to proff er a foreground, a surface, 
a look as an off ering to be looked at” (IM 203, emphasis added). 
Appearing, in its first and “authentic” sense, “rips space open. . . 
it first conquers space; as standing there, it creates space for 
itself.” Appearing in the second sense “merely steps forth from an 
already prepared space, and it is viewed by a looking-at within the 
already fixed dimensions of this space” (IM 203-204). Appearing 
in the second sense may be characterized as dogma, or received 
wisdom, or relating to the self or others as possessing “qualities,” 
such as being “stingy” or being “big.” In Werner Erhard’s work, this 
distinction is also developed in the term sharing: to share one’s self 
in communication is to conquer the space—to create context as 
one speaks, and in such a way that shift s the way the world occurs, 
with which our actions are correlated.
 But here is the tricky part of this distinction: appearing that 
rips space open is always ripping space open. Otherwise it would 
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 490 ===