=== PAGE 105 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session One 
91
and we don’t see how we use the box to be right, which makes us very ineff ective, by the way.
Whatever power knowing has, whatever power information has, the power becomes displaced 
by the motivation behind the gathering of it.
SIENNA
What I do then is spend a lot of time judging whether they are acting as if they know, or acting
as if I know, even when I don’t know, which makes it very upsetting for me yesterday and this 
morning, that there’s a piece of me that knows that what’s critical for me, you know Werner 
said to focus on where you were upset or confused. And I’m attracted to that area in the circle
that I don’t know that I don’t know. And when I’m in my act of having to know, it is so critical 
to my success that I’m willing to say that I know when I don’t. And then I miss the opportunity 
to create solutions when I’m in my act “I already know.”
WES
Brilliant. She’s creating “creativity,” and she knows she can’t step into that domain, because the
very thing that keeps her from stepping into that domain is this thing, that she’s “got to know.”
t
But if you’re going to create something, you can’t know what you’re going to create. That’s
the area of creativity: you can’t step into it unless you’re willing to give up what you previ-
ously knew. This is a major issue people have a breakthrough with in the creativity seminar.
(to Sienna)
That’s great.
SIENNA
There’s another thing about the act and inauthenticity, which I have become very sophisticated 
in. I decided at some point about people who are assholes, who stand up and challenge author-
ity, and I decided all that stuff  was inappropriate. And yet one of my inauthenticities is that I
walk around knowing that I know a lot more than anyone else. But if I said that, that would
mean being an asshole: and so I’ve cloaked it. But it’s worse because it’s indirect. And then I
walk around worried that people will fi nd out what I don’t want them to fi nd out about me. It’s
silly because it’s probably written all over me.
WES
They won’t acknowledge it because the unspoken agreement with your friends is that you won’t 
call them on their inauthenticity and they won’t call you on yours. That’s what it means to have
a friend. You’ll let that slip by. The other agreement is that your friends are willing to listen to 
your racket. Today you’ll fi nd out about your racket.
(to the group)
She is sharing an aspect of her racket. It’s a technical term. I don’t know if we mentioned it 
yesterday, but here’s how to listen to people sharing in here. You should listen to the partici-
pants’ shares like that’s you in some way speaking. Even if the person sharing is female and
you’re male. The Forum is not about men and women as men and women as much as it is


=== END OF PAGE 105 ===