=== PAGE 534 ===

520
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
Look. I say “I love you.” But it’s just a bunch of words, because I don’t feel it. 
RALPH
But when you say “I love you” and you feel it, I don’t understand why that means I am my 
feelings.
ERHARD
Because you can’t say “I love you” without feeling it.
RALPH
So who you are is just the state of what is true for you, whatever that state is. Feelings or not 
feelings. When they are there.
ERHARD
When they’re not there, then it’s not there.
RALPH
Then who you say you are is a lie. So who you are is your feelings, only when who you are, who 
you are saying who you are is really the feeling.
ERHARD
No, you got it too complex. This has to do with thinking. Listen: “I assert that you are your 
feelings.” And you should say “Okay, I heard your assertion; what evidence do you have to 
validate that assertion?” Then I say, “My evidence is: When you say ‘I love you’ to somebody, it’s 
not authentic for you unless you feel it—hence the evidence there validating my assertion that 
you are your feelings. Because the ‘I’ which you’re speaking is your feelings or it’s not authentic. 
‘I love you’: ‘I’ refers to my feelings.”
RALPH
I got it.
ERHARD
Thank you. I assert “you are your feelings.” And my evidence for that assertion is you can’t 
say “I love you” to somebody and have it be authentic if you don’t feel it. What you mean by 
“I” is feeling. “Feeling loves you. And I am my feelings, therefore I can say ‘I love you’ if I feel 
it. Because ‘I’ and feeling are one. I am my feelings.” This is the age of sincerity. In an age of 
sincerity people identify with their feelings—I don’t like “identify” because it’s a psychological 
term and this is an ontological conversation. So I don’t say people identify with their feelings, I 
say “you are your feelings,” and their mood, and their attitude, and their state of mind, and the 
way they see things, and what they believe in—“believe” being something like feeling it, seeing 
it. You don’t have a special “believe” organ. “Believe” is constituted of perceptions and thinking 
and feeling. So I’m accusing you of being your internal state. You are your internal state because 
this is the age of sincerity. In an age of sincerity, what you meant is what’s really important. 
technological we become (“Gaining”). During his conversation with 
Jacob in Session Three of Day Three, Erhard said, “The attempt to 
get out of the trap constricts the bars of the prison. The attempt to 
get beyond the ‘this-is-all-there-is’ keeps you in the trap. Trying to 
get out of the prison keeps you in the prison. And not trying to get 
out of the prison keeps you in the prison.” 
Having sounded the alarm, Heidegger has a suggestion—not 
an answer, but a hint, which also is echoed in Erhard’s technology 
of transformation in the distinction “getting off  it,” where we are 
no longer constrained to entertain a given way of Being (an already 
and always way of listening). “In the normal course of events,” 
said Erhard in Session Five of Day One, “if I found out my already 
always listening was disempowering I would try to stop it. He [the 
participant in dialogue with Erhard] didn’t change it. That’s the big 
secret. Because when you change it, nothing changes.” Heidegger’s 
suggestion comes from these lines from the German poet 
Hölderlin: “But where danger is, grows/The saving power also” 
(“QCT” in BW 333). That is, at its root, technology’s danger is at the 
same time Being’s gift . Therefore, Heidegger asks, “might not an 
adequate look into what enframing is, as a destining of revealing, 
bring the upsurgence of the saving power into appearance?” 
(“QCT” in BW 334). Here, he specifies the conditions for such an 
upsurgence: 
Because the essence of technology is nothing
technological, essential reflection upon tech-
nology and decisive confrontation with it must
happen in a realm that is, on the one hand, akin
to the essence of technology, and, on the other,
fundamentally diff erent from it. (“QCT” in
BW 340)
“
Being given by the technological way of Being, swept up into the 
in-order-to, we cannot but be given entirely by “its” aims. We 
don’t run it; it runs us. But appropriating this lostness there at the 
precipice that Nothing brings us to face, at the very moment we 
can be in the trap of the in-order-to, the saving power surges up. 
That is Erhard’s technology of transformation.


=== END OF PAGE 534 ===