=== PAGE 476 ===

462
SPEAKING BEING
KIPP
She said what she said. You cried. She did not make you cry.
WANDA
All right. What I did notice was I didn’t want her to see me crying. What I saw was two things 
my mother said to me as a little girl that had been driving my life. She said that the way to make 
her happy was that she’d be happy if I was happy. 
KIPP
A lot of you withhold that from your parents. A lot of you don’t want to be well, alive, happy: 
You’ve got to keep being a little bit screwed up so that they’re not quite sure they did it all right. 
WANDA
The second thing she said about how to make her happy was that whatever I did was that I 
would do my best, be the best that I could be. I saw early on that I could not deliver on the fi rst 
point, I couldn’t make her happy by me being happy because growing up, my mother was beat 
up a lot and I was miserable in that situation. I was telling her this whole thing over dinner 
and she didn’t want to hear that part. It was too painful. It brought up that I wasn’t supposed 
to share all of the sadness that I had. I was only allowed to share the good things. So I made 
that decision that I couldn’t deliver on that promise. I did deliver on the arrangement that I 
would be the best I could be at what I chose to be. I went on to gather a lot of credentials and 
accomplishments, so that my mother would be happy. I told her that I have been living her 
life for her because she also told me when I was little that she had her artwork as a teenager 
featured in the Brussels World Fair and I said “Why didn’t you pursue that?” She said, “I went 
to career day and went into the room for commercial artists and it was all men.” And the man 
leading the event said to her that she had the wrong room. “The typing room is down the hall.”
KIPP
You all got sucked into that one. That’s how much strength you’ve got. One little thing and you 
go...
(to laughter, Kipp imitates again a runt trying to break into the litter to feed from) 
WANDA
When she had shared that with me, that she didn’t get to pursue her career I made a decision 
that I would for her. I’ve been living her life for her. I would carry that torch...
KIPP
It’s not a torch; it’s an anvil around your neck. 
WANDA (to laughter)
Right. Right. And then I asked her why she didn’t pursue it later and she said, “Well, I got 
married and had sixteen children.”


=== END OF PAGE 476 ===