=== PAGE 553 ===

 
 
 
Aft erword 539
Western civilization from its grand beginning in ancient Greece. Techno-industrial 
modernity brings to a culmination the nihilistic history of the West. It is worth
noting, as Berkeley philosopher Hans Sluga has pointed out, that Heidegger was 
only one of many German philosophers who became either outright Nazis or else
fellow travellers.15 Many academic humanists of the era—German, French, English,
Spanish, Italian—agreed with Heidegger that modernity was a colossal misstep, 
which promoted the revolt of the masses. Of course, Heidegger’s already elevated 
philosophical status meant that his conversion had greater significance at a time 
when the Nazi regime still sought cultural legitimation. It is also worth noting that
much of what he says about techno-industrial modernity, namely, that it reduces
nature to mere raw material and humankind to resources demanded by the pow-
er-seeking system, is remarkably similar to what was said around the same time by
leading members of the left -wing Frankfurt School, including Theodor Adorno and
Max Horkheimer.
Heidegger’s view of Western history as leading to nihilism stands in stark 
contrast to progressive interpretations, initiated by French Enlightenment thinkers,
as well as by G.W.F. Hegel, Marx, and many other nineteenth- and twentieth-century 
European and American political theorists, according to which history leads to 
emancipation from ignorance and unjust political authority, and to scientific knowl-
edge that promises relief from human misery. Heidegger’s anti-modernist attitudes 
were similar in some ways to those held by Nietzsche. Both thinkers became major 
influences on post-modern theory, which depicts modernity in ways that at times
have much in common with anti-modernist views that prevailed in Germany in the
late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.
Despite his rejection of modernity and his embrace of the far-right Nazi par-
ty, Heidegger carefully avoided anti-Semitic statements in his published works.  
Subsequent historical research has showed, however, that while he was Rektor of 
the University of Freiburg (1933–34), he made such statements in off icial letters and 
engaged in some anti-Jewish activity. 
The ongoing publication of the Black Notebooks, which Heidegger began to 
compose in the 1930s, brings the political controversy to a new stage. In these Note-
books, now appearing in his Gesamtausgabe (Collected Works), Heidegger writes that 
European Jewry played a significant role in the rise of “calculative” thinking, which
he held responsible for modernity’s disclosure of everything as mere means for en-
hancing power. At times, he suggested that the Jews were somehow responsible for 
the rise of such thinking, but at other times he indicated that the Jews were pawns 
in the process by which the Being of entities had concealed itself, with the result that
entities (including humans) had been gradually reduced to sheer 
instrumentality.
For Heidegger, human existence opens up the clearing in which entities can
manifest themselves and in this sense “be.” Supposedly, the ancient Greeks were
opened up in a way that allowed entities to stand forth, to reveal themselves in 
ways that gave rise to incomparable beauty and terrible violence. Gradually, how-
ever, the clearing that constitutes human existence began to become constricted,
beginning already with Plato and Aristotle (!). Hence, the Being of entities could re-
veal itself in ever more limited ways. Instead of existing so as to let entities be man-
ifest in their own ways, humankind asserted itself as the human subject, arrogating 
to itself the right to dominate the planet. Such violent self-assertion, according to 
Heidegger, results not from a merely human decision, but instead from eff acement 
of the Being of entities. In addition to blaming the Jews for this outcome, he also
assigns responsibility for it to the Catholic Church, American capitalism, Soviet 
Marxism, scientism, democracy, and other institutions. In some ways, Heidegger 
was an equal-opportunity denouncer. 
Heidegger goes so far as to suggest that the death camps, however terrible their 
outcome was for Jews, were the products of the very same calculative, instrumen-
tal, power-driven thinking that they had promulgated. Today, we would call this 
“blaming the victims.” That he held such a view helps to explain, at last, his silence
about the Holocaust. We may be charitable in saying that he did not endorse the 
death camps, but he did not speak out against them, even aft er the war, much to the 
consternation of his Jewish students as well as many other philosophers who had 
learned from Heidegger’s publications.
Anti-Semitism was widespread in Europe and America in the decades leading 
up to World War II. It became particularly ferocious in Germany for many diff erent
reasons, one of them being that emancipated Jews turned out to be exceptionally 
intelligent, capable, and hard-working, thereby winning positions of influence in
academia, medicine, law, and business. These achievements, presumably unexpect-
ed by a German population still harboring anti-Semitic views, provoked widespread 
ressentiment, as Nietzsche put it. Germany’s defeat in World War I, accusations of 
internal betrayal that led to that outcome, the punitive treaty at Versailles, the Great
Inflation followed by Great Depression, widespread street fighting between Nazi
Brownshirts and communists, and the perceived political gridlock arising from the 
democratic Weimar regime, helped to create the conditions that allowed for a char-
ismatic demagogue like Hitler to seize power by blaming Jews for Germany’s misery. 
Describing these social, political, and economic conditions, however, does not 


=== END OF PAGE 553 ===