=== PAGE 463 ===

Forum Day Four: Session Two Interval 449
It is the authors’ policy, consistent with the thinking we are exploring, to allow 
questions to remain open, and if possible to open them further. We therefore pro-
pose this response that opens up a new line of inquiry: it is the nature of Being to 
withdraw. 
[T]his concealing of its essence and of its essential origin is 
characteristic of Being’ s primordial self-illumination. . . . 
The being itself does not step into this light of Being. The 
unconcealment of beings, the brightness granted them, 
obscures the light of Being. As it reveals itself in beings, 
Being withdraws. [. . .] Man’s inability to see himself corre-
sponds to the self-concealing of the lighting of Being. (EGT 
26, emphasis added)
Being is always the context of meaninglessness from which the meanings have 
emerged, the everything/nothing of the sway from which the Greeks struggled to 
bring forth beings. Not-Being is Being’s flipside, and must remain its persistent ori-
entation, as Heidegger finds in this passage from the pre-Socratic thinker Heraclitus 
(Fragment 123): 
Physis kryptesthai philei: Being [emerging appearance] in-
trinsically inclines toward self-concealment. Being means: 
to appear in emerging, to step forth out of concealment—
and for this very reason, concealment and the provenance 
from concealment essentially belong to Being. Such prove-
nance lies in the essence of Being, of what appears as such. 
Being remains inclined toward concealment, whether in 
great veiling and silence, or in the most superficial distort-
ing and obscuring. (IM 126, emphases added)
It is essential to recognize, then, that the emergence of physis into the world, and 
the unconcealment of Being’s truth that is manifested in such emergence, is never a 
once-and-for-all event. 
It is the power of logos to hold together what tends apart, maintaining the 
oppositional tendencies of that which it gathers in “the highest acuteness of its ten-
sion” (IM 149). But this is not achieved without human participation in the struggle: 
“Where struggle ceases, beings indeed do not disappear, but world turns away” 
(IM 68, emphases added).
The mystery of Being, for the fortunate among us, may cease for a moment to 
be a mystery. That moment may be a minute, a month, or even a year. But inevita-
“ 
“ 
bly the mystery becomes again a mystery, a puzzlement. Finding one’s way back 
into the heart of the mystery is the adventure of emergence returning to conceal-
ment and emerging and returning to concealment. It is the ongoing challenge of 
transformation.    


=== END OF PAGE 463 ===