=== PAGE 284 ===

270
SPEAKING BEING
FRED
And at dinner I got to what the cost is, because when I see all the happiness around here, I 
just want to push it all down. And what I discovered about how I dominate is I don’t want you 
to be happier than I am. So I come in with sad, and I really get sad and I get heavy with the 
sadness. But what I also discovered was this incredible disempowerment just all the way down. 
If I make a commitment and something happens like I don’t want to fulfi ll that, then I go into 
sadness, and then I don’t want to do anything, like the whole bottom falls out. So any joy in my 
relationship with my wife? Well I don’t want her to be quite that much happier than I am. I take 
away all that joy...
ERHARD
Because if you don’t have sadness, and sadness is the way you dominate and avoid domination... 
If you don’t have sadness you lose your weapon. You can’t be happy except tentatively. Just for a 
little while maybe. Very good. Continue.
FRED
So also what I’ve looked at: I’ve been talking about having a television show for two years. 
To have teenagers and parents interact in a powerful way to get over all this stuff  about clean 
rooms. And whenever I get up to speed about that I get sad. And I don’t want to do that. I’m 
avoiding the domination of being powerful and making that kind of contribution to the world.
ERHARD
That’s hard to hear—avoid the domination of being powerful. It’s hard to hear.
FRED
I don’t want that domination. I want to be free just in my relationship with my wife. I don’t 
want to be dominated by my commitment to her. I want to be away from that. I’ve dominated 
with anger, and with depression, and now with sadness. 
KIPP
There’s no freedom in wanting to be free. It sounds free but it is the trap. Whatever you can’t be 
with has you.
FRED
I found what this was all covering up. I just don’t accept myself. I don’t accept who I am. I have 
a tremendous fear of just being with, being with who I am.
KIPP
Yeah but that tremendous fear is what comes with being a human being. You don’t make it up; 
it makes you up.
ERHARD
I don’t like the term fear here. I’d like to be a little more precise. It’s really a threat in the form of 
the domination. The fear is just a part of it. In other words, your emotional system is going to be 


=== END OF PAGE 284 ===