=== PAGE 256 ===

242
SPEAKING BEING
JACOB
Rather than meaning, there’s a plot to it.
ERHARD
There’s no plot to it. You add the plot. And you’re not doing it to entertain yourself. You’re doing 
it because you’re doing it. You justify doing it in here when we get you to see that you’re doing it 
by saying I’m doing it in order to entertain myself. But you’re not doing it. And you’re not doing 
it to entertain yourself. 
JACOB
But what if it does entertain me?
ERHAD
Then it does. But you don’t do it in order to entertain yourself.
JACOB
Yeah. You don’t do anything in order to anything.
ERHARD
Exactly. You do what you do and you don’t do what you don’t do. And you got all the 
justifi cation that you add to that.
JACOB
I do what I like.
ERHARD
You don’t do what you like. 
JACOB
That would be an in-order-to.
ERHARD
Right. Nobody ever does what they like. They do what they do. Have you ever done anything 
you didn’t do?
JACOB
No.
ERHARD
Have you ever done anything you didn’t like to do?
JACOB
Yeah.
Thus we can say, in the sense that Heidegger is distinguishing 
here, that the est Training and The Forum are the Same but not 
identical. Further, we can likewise say that the Same relationship 
exists between the “single thought” of Heidegger’s thinking and 
the transformational experience evoked in The Forum.
Heidegger further teases out the distinction “the Same” in a 
discussion of the Logos, the site where beings, emerging into 
the world of meaning, are gathered and sheltered. Although in 
the West logos is traditionally translated as discourse or spoken 
language—and for Heidegger, of course, language is the realm of 
Being—the root term, legein, does not primarily indicate speaking, 
but means to lay down, to lay before. 
To say is legein. This sentence, if well thought,
now sloughs off  everything facile, trite, and vac-
uous. It names the inexhaustible mystery that 
the speaking of language comes to pass from the 
unconcealment of what is present. (EGT 64)
Saying and talking occur essentially as the letting-
lie-together-before of everything which, laid in 
unconcealment, comes to presence. (EGT 63)
“
A central question for Heidegger concerns the truth of a 
being—the Being of the being—at the point of its emergence 
into the world. How can we perceive the thing itself, physis in 
the moment of its first flowering into meaning, but before its 
deflowering by the distortions of opinion and perspective? At 
the heart of the matter, says Heidegger in this intensely reflexive 
passage, is the possibility of openness to letting, and to the Same:
before us as lying-before. It establishes this as
itself. It lays one and the Same in one. It lays one 
as the Same. Such legein lays one and the same, 
the omon. Such legein is omologein: One as the
Same, i.e., a letting-lie-before of what does lie 
before us, gathered in the self-sameness of its
lying-before. (EGT 66)
“


=== END OF PAGE 256 ===