=== PAGE 554 ===

540
SPEAKING BEING
remove personal responsibility for Heidegger and others who chose to side with the
Nazis and who tolerated the violence they wreaked on millions of innocent people. 
There has already been a virtual tidal wave of commentary addressing the
question  of Heidegger’s anti-Semitism,  most recently as it appears in his Black 
Notebooks.16  Some scholars conclude that Heidegger’s should no longer be 
taught or studied, because it is allegedly “contaminated” with far-right-wing and
anti-Semitic views. My own view is that Heidegger’s philosophical gift s were so great 
that we would make a mistake to boot him out of the philosophical cannon, any 
more than we should exclude Wagner from the musical canon, even though his 
anti-Semitic attitudes may be discerned on occasion in some of his greatest operas, 
not to mention in his published essays. In both cases, we must read and listen with
discernment, with recognition that even brilliant philosophical work and stirring 
musical compositions may contain dark and dangerous aspects. 
Publication of the Black Notebooks ought to be an occasion for reflection about 
the anti-Semitic and racist views that characterized much of the Western world, es-
pecially in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Recent work on American slavery
has demonstrated that this dreadful industrial regime provided the wealth needed 
for capitalism to get up a head of steam by the middle of the nineteenth century.17
American and European colonialism, justified by white supremacist notions of “the
white man’s burdens,” included practices that we should look back upon with hor-
ror. Heidegger belonged to a version of that white supremacist world, even though
he adhered not to biological racism, but instead to a kind of metaphysical-linguistic
racism focused on the exceptionalism of the ancient Greeks and the German Volk. 
Racist views, to be sure, were held by many, including those whom we otherwise 
revere. The recent controversy over public display of the Confederate flag in some 
Southern states demonstrates the cultural staying power of anti-modernism, includ-
ing white supremacy.
Heidegger should continue to be studied and appreciated for his important 
philosophical contributions, especially work from the era of Being and Time, which
proves most important for understanding the parallels between Erhard’s work and
Heidegger’s. His later writings, including his powerful reflections on the nature of 
language, and his eff ort to understand the essence of modern technology, also merit
attention, though they should be read while keeping in mind that they sometimes
entwined themselves with his far-right-wing political views. 
One of the things that struck some of Heidegger’s students when reading Being
and Time was this: What should be the content of decisions made within the light of 
t
resolute authenticity?  I am resolved, but resolved to do what? Heidegger answered
that question for himself in the early 1930s by becoming a Nazi. According to him,
only the situation itself makes clear what is called for. For him, then, authenticity 
was consistent with being a Nazi, which for Heidegger also meant taking a stand 
against Soviet Marxism, which he regarded as a mortal threat to Western civilization.
The inconceivable atrocities of the Holocaust seem to annul the validity of Heideg-
ger’s decision to support Nazism, even if his concern about Soviet Marxism may have 
been justified. Throughout history, people have committed violence when they felt 
duty-bound to fulfill some great task. There is no guarantee that anything we choose 
to do now, even in moments of apparent clarity, will later prove morally praisewor-
thy.18 Heidegger joined a movement that provoked World War II and killed millions of 
people in concentration camps. Presumably, readers of this book would agree that 
at some point before he died, or even posthumously, Heidegger should have off ered
some expression of regret for his contributions to the Nazi movement. We can only
speculate about why he refused to do so, but one reason may be his inability to tell
the truth about his personal responsibility. Heidegger was a particular moral agent,
not the spokesperson for the “history of Being.” 
Although Erhard’s Forum is apolitical, it is not morally neutral. Those who took
The Forum in the late 1980s, or The Landmark Forum up until the present, will recall
its emphasis on making a diff erence by contributing to the community. When Erhard
initiated the Hunger Project in the 1970s, his goal was to demonstrate that we could
end the conversation that holds hunger to be inevitable. Instead, we can initiate a
new conversation, according to which hunger can be ended. Despite being criticized
in some circles, the Hunger Project was an important social, economic, and political
intervention. It invited people to commit to this proposition: We do not have to put 
up with hunger. There is enough food, but we lack the conviction that hunger can 
be eliminated. By changing our attitude toward hunger, we can end it, thus helping 
to create a world that works for everyone. Or as Erhard would put it, by altering the 
way hunger occurs for us as inevitable, so that it can occur for us as
r
endable, our 
behavior related to hunger would also be altered.
Erhard would agree that life is dangerous. In taking a stand, we may end up 
going astray, even though it made sense to take that stand at the moment. One 
of the reasons that The Forum’s sharing is so important, however, is its revelation 
that most people really want to make a diff erence that contributes to human well
being and—these days—to planetary well being, too. Creating and attempting to 
bring to fruition possible and desirable futures—these are risky endeavors. Not only
can they fail, and usually will fail, but at times they will cause more harm than they 
attempted to prevent. Recognizing this is an invitation to heed what others have to 


=== END OF PAGE 554 ===