=== PAGE 318 ===

304
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
Yeah. Every time you think positively, that is the content. The context is negative, that you are 
a negative person. Life is negative. No kidding. I’ve done that whole achievement thing for 
quite a while. Made a lot of money doing that. Lot of money. That whole business about being 
successful and achieving, and positive thinking. You name it I did it. And it works. The problem 
is that it’s never enough. Never fulfi lled, never whole. What you’re asking me is how to get out 
of the trap and the answer is that the attempt to get out of the trap is what keeps you in the trap. 
I want you to think about this tonight. This is hard to get. Because getting out is supposed to get 
you out. In this case getting out keeps you in. This is a very strange kind of prison. The bars are 
not made of iron. They are made out of the attempt to get out of the prison. So Lucy, tonight, I 
want you to see if you can come to accept that you’re going to have to live the rest of your life in 
this prison.
LUCY
I have another question. The concept... life is empty and...
ERHARD
I don’t talk in concepts. Distinctions.
LUCY
I’m trying to relate how we can apply it to our lives.
ERHARD
You cannot apply it. Worthless, useless information.
LUCY
Then what’s the purpose in knowing that? Or accepting that?
ERHARD
Because it’s the truth.
LUCY
But how can knowing that or accepting that create personal power for us?
ERHARD
So wonderful. Hold on one second, I’ll be right back.
(to the group)
Lucy and I are going to demonstrate terminally that you are addicted to the answer, that you are 
addicted to getting out, to getting the answer. That no matter how many times I’m going to tell 
you that the attempt to get out is the bars of the prison, you’re going to spend the rest of your 
life trying to get out. She’s going to demonstrate the very thing I’m talking about; she’s going to 
demonstrate that she’s going to spend the rest of her life trying to get out. And nothing I tell her 
is going to stop her. There are no answers. You don’t get out. It’s not going to work out. It’s not 


=== END OF PAGE 318 ===