=== PAGE 193 ===

Forum Day Three: Session One
179
ERHARD
And standing in the love that was there. Not a bad place to stand—talking about power. What 
you call love is not love: it’s love in-order-to; love to keep somebody around; or love to get 
something out of them; love because you need. That’s not love. When you take everything 
else away, what is left is love. When you take away “I was a twit,” and take away him being 
arrogant, what you’re left with is love for each other. And it doesn’t mean anything, but it’s 
extraordinarily powerful. And you can stand there and really make something happen in life—
like really create something worth creating. Fabulous.
SUSAN
During dinner last night I was expressing things that had bothered me before, and he said, “I 
think it should be a requirement for spouses, that when one takes it the other should take 
The Forum.” 
ERHARD
We like it to get bad fi rst, though. Makes it clearer about what you’re up to if it gets bad fi rst. 
SUSAN
I know because listening to everybody else yesterday, things they wanted to fi x, and I didn’t 
think I had anything--I just haven’t lived long enough.
ERHARD
You know, we do this with children. They’re as fucked up as you are. They’ve got all the same 
stuff  as you going on and they’re in the process of building their identity. And I’m probably one 
of the few people in the world who’s an expert on teenagers. And I know almost nothing about 
teenagers. The truth about teenagers is that they’re human. People are insulted when I say that. 
But when you live with a teenager, you’re not sure. 
 
(laughter)
The truth is that teenagers are adults. That’s hard to get, because they’re a weird kind of adult. 
They’re adults who don’t have their act together well enough to get it bought all the time. And 
it’s very painful to get called on your act. Very painful. Adults are teenagers with their act so 
well put together that they almost never get called on it. Very simple and very powerful.
SUSAN
I see that as I was looking for a job I was afraid of telling my husband for fear he might make 
me continue if it didn’t work out. 
KIPP
Yeah, don’t establish a network of support for yourself.
SUSAN
He might force me: “Just in case it doesn’t feel good you can jump right out.”


=== END OF PAGE 193 ===