=== PAGE 386 ===

372
SPEAKING BEING
The Forgetting of Being, Part Seven of Eight: Logos
Are humans missing out on an important element of existence? How would we 
know? How did this come about? Further, if this element is the experience of Being 
that is available in The Forum, why does that experience occur as elusive—that is, as 
something you get and lose and get and lose? To shed some light on these ques-
tions, we are following Heidegger’s history of Being. 
As we proceed here, we invite you to read from the perspective that while 
Heidegger’s project was supremely intellectual in its approach, it was not epistemo-
logical in nature: he did not want to help us to know more about Being, or to achieve 
what we generally call a greater understanding. Rather, he wanted to create, through 
thinking, a clearing for the presence of Being in the world. In his reading of the exist-
ing fragments of their writing, he finds evidence that the pre-Socratics experienced 
this presence. 
The Unconcealment of Being
The fifth and sixth centuries BCE were an extraordinary period in human evolu-
tion, giving rise to “a development in the art of philosophical inquiry that is quite 
unparalleled in world history” (Wheelwright, The Presocratics 1). Language, by some 
estimates, had entered our evolutionary path a million years earlier; and by the fifth 
century, complex aspects of existence were emerging to be named, and dealt with. 
There was a new level of demand for humans to understand themselves, and their 
place in the world. The decisions made at this point, Heidegger says, have proven to 
be decisive.
We have seen that for the Greeks, Being occurred as physis, the sway, an “over-
whelming coming-to-presence” of emerging possibilities. In a process of languaging 
that Heidegger calls originary naming, the Greeks were engaged in a struggle to 
create a world: “[T]his sway first steps forth from concealment—that is, in Greek, 
aletheia (unconcealment) happens—insofar as the sway struggles itself forth as a 
world. Through world, beings first come into being” (IM 67). 
Physis, emerging as world, stands in the world in aletheia. Aletheia—
unconcealment—was for the Greeks self-blossoming appearance. Heidegger some-
times translated the word aletheia as “truth,” but at other times he was emphatic 
that aletheia for the Greeks bore no relation to our usual notion of truth as the 
correspondence of a proposition with its object. Aletheia, for the pre-Socratics, was 
SESSION ONE INTERVAL
the truth of a being at its inception. To think aletheia, we must imagine an existential 
moment—a moment of virginal emergence when a being is first available to be seen, 
and thus first opened to being apprehended in the world before multiple perspec-
tives of its appearance have given rise to multiple propositions regarding its nature: 
For the Greek essence of truth is possible only together 
with the Greek essence of Being as physis. On the grounds 
of the unique essential relationship between physis and
aletheia, the Greeks could say: beings as beings are true.
The true as such is in being. . . Truth belongs to the essence 
of Being. (IM 112) 
M
The idea challenges our thinking, immersed as we are in a persistent cacophony of 
conflicting truth claims. But the view that beings as beings are essentially true was 
grounded in a particular ontological/historical context: for the pre-Socratic thinkers, 
physis was Being brought to stand in the world with beings, and in that context the 
unconcealed beings stood in truth. The truth of beings was the truth of Being. We 
cannot grasp that notion of truth—cannot imagine it, cannot bring it to thought—
because we have lost the requisite orientation to Being. 
Truth as Freedom
Fundamental to that orientation, says Heidegger, is that the essence of its truth is 
freedom. But this understanding of the situation calls for a shift in what our Western 
tradition has considered to be the relation of freedom to truth. In that tradition, 
freedom is a property of human beings, and consists in our freedom to say, and in 
saying to judge what is true. This is the Cartesian model, with the balance of power 
weighted on the side of the subject.
But now the emphasis in Heidegger’s view is the freedom that arises in 
aletheia—in unconcealment, the freedom of the openness of the open region in 
which beings are first revealed. This shift—from the freedom of the human sayer 
to speak truth, to the freedom for beings to be the true things they are—is a central 
movement in Heidegger’s later thinking: “Freedom now reveals itself as letting 
beings be” (“OET” in BW 125). But this is not letting-be in the sense of neglecting, or 
letting things alone. Here it means the opposite: “To let be is to engage oneself with 
beings,” not by managing or planning but by an alert attunement to the open region 
“into which every being comes to stand, bringing that openness, as it were, along 
with itself” (“OET” in BW 125).
“


=== END OF PAGE 386 ===