=== PAGE 244 ===

230
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
I know. You turned that into another fi re: drama, meaning, signifi cance. You take everything 
and turn it into shit. We create something called possibility and you turn it into some kind of 
fucking golden calf. Like “oh! That’s going to save me. Man, am I glad I got here! I didn’t know 
that was the answer.” The answer is that there isn’t any answer. That’s the answer. No kidding. 
Like really. You can go anywhere in the universe you want to go to get the answer. And that’s 
the answer. Whatever it is you’re doing to make it, you’re never going to do that enough to make 
it. It isn’t going to turn out because it already turned out. And this is the way it turned out. Just 
like this. Tomorrow will be just like it is tomorrow. And when you die, they’ll put you into a box 
and throw dirt on your face. And that’s how it’ll all turn out. It doesn’t mean anything.
ANGEL
So now that I know that, why not throw dirt in my face right now? 
ERHARD
That’s making it mean something. And it’s high drama meaning. You could have said, “I’ll go 
watch television.” You could have said that but it’s not dramatic enough. There are people in 
here that are not high dramatists like you are. Some people say “I’ll go home and watch the 
game.” Yours is “I’ll kill myself.” It’s just a matter of style. You watch. The world’s going to 
change here. It’s going to stop being the way it is.
KIPP
What now? Can you see how attached you are to having it mean something? 
ANGEL
Yes. Yesterday I was attached to caring which meant it means something.
KIPP
Yeah, and so what you’re attached to is being attached.
ERHARD
That’s a little advanced for most of you.
ANGEL
So, if I’m not attached to it anymore, it doesn’t mean it’s not still there. It just means I’m not 
attached to it anymore.
ERHARD
No. That’s some kind of Zen horseshit. You are not attached to it. You’re not attached to it, and 
that’s the end of that story. 
ANGEL
If I’m not resisting it, then I’m not attached to it anymore.
Speaking out
Another aspect of this perspective: in speaking out, we are 
“outing” something that has already existed, in the background, 
as a possibility. Indeed: “If we conceive of this state of aff airs in an 
elementary and originary way, we see that what is spoken out is 
already necessarily within physis, otherwise it could not be spoken 
from out of it” (FCM 26). Heidegger presses the point: everything 
that exists has been spoken out, and everything that has been 
spoken out was already there. So: 
The question for us is: What does this legein,
this speaking out accomplish? What occurs in
the logos? Is it only a matter of the fact that 
what beings as a whole are is brought to a
word, formulated, come to word? To come to
word—what does that mean? (FCM 26–27)
“
To understand the meaning of a term or concept, says Heidegger, 
it may be useful to consider its opposite. He finds in a fragment of 
Heraclitus the suggestion that the opposite of legein—that is, “not 
letting come to word”—was for the Greeks precisely understood as 
concealment:
From this it necessarily follows that the funda-
mental function of legein is to take whatever 
prevails from concealment. . . . Revealing, ‘tak-
ing from concealment,’ is that happening which
occurs in the logos. In the logos, the prevailing
of beings becomes revealed, becomes mani-
fest. (FCM 27)
“


=== END OF PAGE 244 ===