=== PAGE 32 ===

18
SPEAKING BEING
BLAKE (pausing)
It’s really hard for me not to be funny.
ERHARD
Yeah. You’re already always funny.
BLAKE
And I don’t want to be silly or you’re going to get mad at me. It’s just a temptation to always be
funny.
ERHARD
It’s the way you avoid dealing with what you don’t want to deal with, which is being anything 
but funny. That’s what you don’t want to deal with. You learned how to deal with being funny.
You got that down very well and the rest of it you’re a little nervous about. But you’re not ner-
vous about being funny, are you?
BLAKE
No.
ERHARD
And you’re not nervous about whatever your racket is either. You’re just nervous about the rest
of it. I know you don’t understand half of what we’re talking about, but that’s all right. Just the
fi rst couple hours.
BLAKE
I don’t want to be nervous anymore.
ERHARD
Somebody write that down for me.
BLAKE
I’m not a dictator and so I have to live with the things I’m not comfortable with, and when I’m
uncomfortable, other people are uncomfortable. I don’t like that.
ERHARD
Thanks... The next subject. Everybody ready for the next subject?
A participant named Charles, who was still concerned with the conversation about the rain, rose.
CHARLES
I’m with “it rains so that life is sustained.”
confidently entrust ourselves to the hidden drift of our 
dialogue. . . as long as we remain inquirers” (“DL” in OWL 30,
emphasis added). In true dialogue—which always has an 
unspoken ontological intent—the dialogue itself can be trusted to 
move us along if we, as participants, continue to be a certain way. 
Notice the reflexive nature of the process: simultaneous surrender 
and evocation. In The Forum, the maintenance of this delicate 
balance is The Forum leader’s task.
A central element of The Forum’s effectiveness is the
inclusiveness of its conversation: interactions between The Forum 
leader and those participants who actively engage in the dialogue
are conducted in front of the entire group, so that even those 
participants who are listening and observing are able to derive 
the benefits of those interactions. 
For both Heidegger and Erhard, a shared tendency of human
being underlies all of our diverse individual and cultural concerns. 
The assumption of The Forum’s methodology is that a skillfully 
managed dialogue between two people can affect the ontological
insight of others who are listening to that dialogue, and who share
the tendency of being that generates it. 
A participant whose concern is her relationship with her 
employer can recognize, in another participant’s discussion of his 
problems with his mother, the same existential structure that is at 
the source of her own problem. Thus The Forum leader regularly 
exhorts participants to “listen from your own concerns.” ■


=== END OF PAGE 32 ===