=== PAGE 374 ===

360
SPEAKING BEING
SALLY
So then I’m going to sit down.
ERHARD
No. You’re only going to sit down if you do. You’re not going to sit down because there’s nothing 
to do; you’re going to sit down if you sit down. And if you don’t sit down, you don’t sit down. 
You’re not going to sit down “because.” You’re still trying to fi nd something to save you. There’s 
no life rings in here. This is the place where we take all the life rings away. There’s nothing to 
stand on. I want you to stand on nothing. I want you to stand on empty and meaningless. Meet 
life with no foundation, with no background, with no learning. Yeah of course you have all the 
learning and all the experience, but you’re not stuck with it. You’re not stuck with what you 
know; you’re not stuck with your condition; you’re not stuck with your past. 
SALLY
I have a question. So, if what I’m making it mean is that it’s hopeless: Are you saying that I 
don’t have to make it mean that? 
ERHARD
If what you’re making it mean is that it’s hopeless, what you want to do is to see that you are 
making it mean that it’s hopeless. You’re doing that. Now, by the way: It is hopeless. And the 
reason it’s hopeless is because of what you have to have if you’re going to have hope. There’s 
only one thing you’ve got to have. Hope cannot exist without hopelessness. And the stronger 
you get your hopes up, the more down in the swamp, down at the bottom of the Valley of the 
Shadow of Death, down in the swamp there, is hopelessness. So the more hope you’ve got, the 
more green slimy monsters there are down in the Valley of the Shadow of Death. Hopelessness. 
It lives down in the swamp at the bottom of the Valley of the Shadow of Death, with all your 
hope up there at the top, except the green slimy monsters keep you from ever being satisfi ed, 
from ever being full of joy. Look, you make a drama up out of being tired. You should have seen 
you the fi rst night. A true drama out of being tired; you make a fucking drama out of death. 
That’s right, death is so nasty because you made a drama out of it. Death is nothing but dying. 
It’s not a drama. Who said death was bad? You did. Okay fi ne: Pope. One thing. People worry 
about death, right? What is there to worry about? Let me explain something to you: You are 
going to die. Don’t worry. You are. You are going to die. And so is everybody else. Everybody 
you love and care about, they’re all going to die. Don’t worry. They will. 
(a participant objects)
You’re a bit nutty about this. You get up every time I talk about dying. And you know what? 
You won’t die one minute before you do. And you want to know what? You won’t live one min-
ute longer when you’re dead. You don’t have to worry about that. It’s all taken care of. You’re 
not going to die before you do and you’re not going to live after you die. Now you can worry 
about something else. So that business about hope and hopelessness: It’s the same conversa-
tion about liking yourself. What is this hope crap? What does that change? What does that do? 
What does that make? What is the value of hope? If you hope it’s going to turn out all right, that 
This is an essential element of the approach to Being which is 
taken in the dialogue of The Forum. To reach Being, one must
travel by way of the nothing. To discover possibility, one must 
confront the facticity, the trap, of no-possibility. Further, what
Heidegger calls “authentic Being-towards-death,” or “freedom 
towards death,” may be seen as consistent with these other 
views: to experience the authentic possibility of one’s life, one 
must confront one’s essential nullity. Conscience calls Dasein—
fallen into the untruth of the “they” self—to “appropriate 
untruth authentically” (BT 345), to bring authenticity to one’s
T
inauthenticity, to be in the trap.
It is of the utmost importance, however, to stress again 
this point: to “confront” means to experience an ontological 
encounter, not merely an ontical or conceptual realization. For 
r
instance, the merely ontic recognition that we all die is of course 
commonplace. On the other hand, the ontological experience of 
the death of one’s self as identity, and the deep realization of the 
possibility of one’s self as an opening, with all the ramifications 
of anxiety and homelessness which that experience entails, is far 
from commonplace. This is the revelation of the nothing, the call 
of conscience, which Heidegger posits as the ground for authentic
existence, and this is the encounter for which the rhetorical
structure of The Forum is designed.
Authentic inquiry into Being is likely to arouse resistance,
and this resistance may be located precisely at the juncture 
where Being’s other side, the Nothing, must be confronted. Here 
is the true challenge of Heidegger’s thinking, which Caputo calls 
“the danger of Heidegger’s path”: at this juncture “there are no 
assurances,” and “in this darkness and uncertainty lies one of the 
largest difficulties with Heidegger’s work” (The Mystical Element 
l
in Heidegger’s Thought 245). Caputo quotes Paul Huhnerfeld, 
who has compared Heidegger’s way with religious paths to 
transformation, such as that of the Christian mystic Meister 
Eckhart: “Meister Eckhart would never have taken the mystical 
step if he had believed that he was leaping into Nothingness 
instead of into the arms of God” (245).


=== END OF PAGE 374 ===