=== PAGE 306 ===

292
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD (to the group)
And what you want to be doing is being a four-, fi ve-, six-year-old girl whose mother was taken 
away or abandoned her and whose only place of belonging, her only place to be, like be at 
home, was her father and that just got smashed. What did you decide about life? You see, you 
made all those decisions like she made about herself and about her stepmother, and about how 
she was gonna deal with her stepmother, and all that stuff . What I want to know now is what 
you decided about life. 
(to a participant with raised hand)
I don’t want an answer; I want you to think.
(indicating Jane)
She’ll answer: you think. 
(to Jane)
Remember what you decided about life? “I decided...”
JANE
Not to be worthless.
ERHARD
You mean, try to overcome being worthless.
JANE
Yeah.
ERHARD
That’s what you decided about yourself. What did you decide about life? 
JANE
I don’t know.
ERHARD
Okay good. 
(to the group)
So I’m going to tell you what you decided about life, because you’ve got one of those. You may 
have been three when you made that decision, or ten, or eleven, or twelve, but everybody in the 
room made the same decision in some circumstance similar to that which Jane just described. 
The only obvious decision such a child could possibly make... And that decision is there is 
something wrong here. Where? Where is there something wrong? Not you. That’s the part you 
already told us about. There’s something wrong here: in life! There’s something wrong here. 
Something is off . There’s something wrong! Can you see that would be an inevitable conclusion 
for some eleven-on-down-year-old person? You think about it for a second. If I get you as a 
A Violent Way
“The word ‘way,’” says Heidegger, “probably is an ancient primary 
word that speaks to the reflective mind of man” (“NL” in OWL 92). 
The central notion behind Heidegger’s use of “way” to designate 
his process of thinking calls for action and vigilance to maintain 
ground gained:
“
To clear a way, for instance across a snow-cov-
ered field, is in the Alemannic-Swabian dialect 
still called wëgen even today. This verb, used 
transitively, means: to form a way and, forming 
it, to keep it ready. Way-making understood in 
this sense no longer means to move something 
up and down a path which is already there. It 
means to bring the way. . . forth first of all, and 
thus to be the way. (“WL” in OWL 129–30)


=== END OF PAGE 306 ===