=== PAGE 175 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session Three 
161
JANE
I remember that, but I remember more my stepmom coming into my life. And my mom dying.
ERHARD
Did you love your real mom?
JANE
I don’t really remember. I thought I did. I don’t remember her. 
ERHARD
So is there anything incomplete with your real mother?
JANE
No.
ERHARD
You’re okay with her?
JANE
Yeah.
ERHARD
Your dad?
JANE
I’m complete with him.
ERHARD
Your stepmom?
JANE
Yeah.
ERHARD
You notice the almost stupid “not”? She didn’t have to be stupid there. Not “I guess.” And that’s
from the beginning because she just showed up and you didn’t have a chance to build a relation-
ship. Like here’s your mother. Have you built a relationship since then?
JANE
Yeah.
beings do not, for the most part, subject our everyday actions 
to analysis. We simply engage in the practices of our inherited
traditions, the tradition into which we have been thrown. But
our understanding of ourselves remains superficial: “Ontical-
ly, of course, Dasein is not only close to us—even that which
is closest. We are it, each of us, we ourselves. In spite of this,
or rather for just this reason, it is ontologically that which is 
farthest” (BT 36
T
).
Dreyfus has proposed examples of the way we inherit 
elements of this thrownness. A Japanese mother comforts her 
baby in the manner of her culture, in quiet and soothing ways, 
while her American counterpart stimulates her baby into more
active and vocal behaviors. These parenting choices are, in large 
part, unconscious on the part of the mothers; they are simply
reproducing their cultures’ ways of being. Nevertheless, by
the time the infants are three to four months of age, they have 
already learned to be Japanese and American infants (Being In 
The World 17). In another example, Dreyfus proposes that all of 
d
the implicit but important rules governing nonverbal behaviors, 
which differ widely among cultures—such aspects of proxemics
as the appropriate distance to stand from others, the relative
desirability of direct eye contact, or the situational expectations 
regarding touch—are learned by unconscious observation as we 
mature within a culture (Being in the World 18). These rules be-
come inculcated long before we might explicitly reflect on them,
and by then, Dasein’s everyday existence is already determined
factically, along with the social moods that shape our options 
for being with others in the world.
It is important here to note that thrownness, like other 
ideas introduced by Heidegger to distinguish Dasein’s existence,
should not be interpreted as a negative state of Being. Given its
apparent limitations, this is counterintuitive, and challenging for 
us to think. But such paradoxical languaging is crucial to under-
standing the thinking of both Heidegger and Erhard. Negative
conditions naturally lead to the human impulse...to “fix” them, 
but both Heidegger and Werner Erhard propose a more unortho-
dox response. ■


=== END OF PAGE 175 ===