=== PAGE 424 ===

410
SPEAKING BEING
WES
Any one you got, they belong here, because they belong in life.
TIM
Not because they shouldn’t be but because they are there. So saying “shouldn’t be” doesn’t make 
them a problem.
WES
No: “Shouldn’t be” is the source of your problems and the solutions to your problems that are at-
tached to your rackets. Now we’re going to look at problems outside your racket to see what you can 
do with them. What would you have to give up to have the problems that you have—not changing 
them—but to have the problems that you have and just have them? You’d have to give up a lot.
(indicating Nicole, and her unfi nished thesis)
She’d have to give up a lot with the thesis: a lot of story, and “something’s wrong,” “something’s 
wrong with me,” or “something’s wrong with it,” or “my mother...” She’d have to give that all up. 
Then she’d have a problem. “I need to get my thesis done and I’m not getting it done.” That’s the
name of that tune. If she would be with it like that she’d have to give up all the “shouldn’t be”s 
around that, right?
TIM
Yes.
WES
She’s solved that problem about the thesis a lot. She gave some explanations about it as a way to 
solve it. She lied about it as a way to solve it. See how those solutions are building the problem?
TIM
I think I’m getting it. So a problem can exist out of the context of “shouldn’t be...”
WES
But not out of the context of languaging. 
TIM
In life... They are there... Period.
WES
Yeah. Problems will occur in languaging one way or the other, because that’s all there is for
human beings.
TIM
They are a rainstorm.
The development of a distinction begins with positing what at 
first appears to be a definition or premise—a “hint”—that participants 
then “try on,” and from which they are to “stand” and then “look out” 
at their everyday lives, and fill in for themselves what is hinted at in 
the hint. In dialogue with Erhard and the other course leaders—in 
combination with witnessing such dialogues—participants share 
what they see, and in the authentic space of this sharing, the distinc-
tion continues to emerge in the background, in what is unsaid in the
conversation that directs our attention to a way of seeing and Being-
in-the-world—a world that is itself being called out into unconceal-
ment by the series of hints. The very act of undergoing a dialogue in 
which a distinction is distinguished gives Being-in-the-world.
Calling a distinction by a descriptive title, then, such as “sto-
ry,” or “what happened,” or “concern,” or “distinction,” or “racket,” 
or “empty and meaningless” can only ever be a hint, a piece of 
a whole that cannot ever be fully represented adequately as a
descriptive statement. Thus, these “hints” function rhetorically as
metaphors, language that on the surface is familiar, but once we 
take up the language and follow its movement, it “turns” us away
toward something utterly diff erent from itself. What makes these 
metaphors “primordial” is that speaking them, and following 
them, brings forth Being-in-the-world from nothing. What makes
the work of Erhard so distinctive is precisely this approach.
Through his encounter with Heidegger’s thinking, Erhard has 
said, new specifications for the communication of his work became 
available—ways to say things more pointedly, increasing the work’s 
value to participants (Erhard, interview with the authors). The funda-
mental dynamic of Erhard’s work—its all-encompassing generative 
distinction—has remained consistent since its inception as the est
Training, and throughout its iteration as The Forum. At the same time, 
new languagings have been added to its vocabulary, creating other 
paths into the generative distinction. But just as Heidegger’s language 
evolved significantly over the course of his career, Erhard has consis-
tently experimented with other new primordial metaphors.
Experimentation is essential if such a methodology of language 
is to retain its generative power. An ontological distinction is com-
municated in the unspoken background as concepts are generated 


=== END OF PAGE 424 ===