=== PAGE 464 ===

450
SPEAKING BEING
When The Forum resumed at 6:35 pm, following the dinner break, Wes and Kipp were on the 
platform. Kipp began the session requesting that participants share what they had seen about 
“choice.” The fi rst to respond was Mac, the man in a wheelchair who had previously complained on 
the morning of Day Two about the late ending time of the fi rst day. 
MAC 
You’ll have to indulge me because I have a need to thank your organization for going out of 
their way for me. It was generous. It was done with love and caring. Good stuff .
KIPP
You’re worth it.
MAC
Thanks.
KIPP
Thank you very much.
(applause)
MAC
I also have a need to share with you a progression. I came here and some of you remember that 
I was kind of angry. The fi rst thing I said was “Goddamn it, what the hell are you keeping us up 
for, to one o’clock, we need our sleep.” Someone I was carpooling with asked what I thought, and 
I said, “Werner Erhard: He’s an asshole.” That’s how I started this. A lot of anger. The next day 
they asked me, and I said, “You know, he’s not bad.” Today I am convinced he is a genius. And 
all you guys really know your stuff , and really care about people, how to get the most for people. 
I want to thank you because it has made a big diff erence in my life. I thought I knew a lot of 
stuff , and I really don’t. I’ve discovered it doesn’t matter that I don’t know very much. What the 
hell’s the diff erence? What is, is. That’s what I’ve discovered here today. I was having dinner and 
someone asked what are we going to tell people what we got out of this and what it is all about? 
We’ll tell them “Why don’t you go and experience it. It’s a hell of an experience. Period.” Because 
I don’t know how to describe in words what has happened to me.
KIPP
You are in the sharing of yourself. Your sharing is the opening for action for people. 
MAC
I get it.
KIPP
See, when you share like you just shared, Mac, people want to participate. Whatever opened up 
for you in your life, the way you said it, is consistent with who people are. You just share your self.
SESSION THREE


=== END OF PAGE 464 ===