=== PAGE 413 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
399
(applause)
“Shouldn’t be” is the box that problems come in for human beings. The already always existing
box you’re given when you’re born—you’re born and they slap you on the ass and they hand you 
a box “this shouldn’t be.” Yeah, that’s the party. Someone’s good idea. I don’t know. And now 
you’ve got this box and you put some of your junk in it, and the question is, “how come you love 
that box?” Yeah, you were given the box, but you really love it. Like you have some fascination 
and addiction to “shouldn’t be.” Do you have any sense that it may relate to your racket?
(laughter)r
Think about it. Rackets love problems and problems love rackets. They’re natural. They’re a fi t.
They’re a couple. Rackets and problems fi t together: a marriage made in heaven. Do you think 
a racket would be any good without some juicy problems in which to make somebody wrong?
You think a racket would stay around without any problems? She has a racket with her thesis.
Her racket loves the thesis. You’re fat and you want to lose weight and you don’t have a racket 
about it, you lose weight. Or you say “the hell with it” and just accept being overweight. There’s 
no problem having no money, unless it “shouldn’t be.” Some people give away all their money 
so that they can be free. They make money “shouldn’t be.” Your problems are a function of 
“shouldn’t be,” and you get to say what “shouldn’t be.” The availability “shouldn’t be” comes
with languaging, but the specifi c use of it: That’s you. It nails your foot to the fl oor, and then
you don’t have to be responsible for going anywhere, so that’s kind of good.
(walking in a circle as if his foot is “nailed to the fl oor”)”
“Oh God! My car won’t start. I can’t get to work. I’ll never get promoted. I’m a failure. My moth-
er was right. She’s always right, the bitch. I was right to make her wrong. She didn’t lend me
the money for the car I really need. Don’t you understand?” People love their problems. When
people get attached to their problems they carry them around forever, like this:
(Wes holds onto one of the director’s chairs and drags it as he walks slowly across the stage)
They bring them to parties. “How’s it going?”
(laughter)r
People never know what to talk about when they’re confronted by being, so they talk about 
their problems. “Hey, did I tell you about my problem?”
(laughter)r
Some people become PhDs in their problem. “Oh, I’ve fi nally understood it.” Some people fi nd a
therapist they pay to listen. Therapists love people who love their problems. Then they analyze it.
(examining an imaginary object)
“Well, this particular one I’ve got is gray.” 
for human being, a constitutive designation for the Being-in-the-world
of Dasein. Such metaphors, introduced into a tradition, shape the way
we understand ourselves and our world. In the Cartesian model that 
has dominated our Western tradition for several centuries, Dasein is 
the self-certain thinking subject—the cogito of “Cogito, ergo sum”—and 
the opening for the world (and for Being) is as an “object,” or cogi-
tatum. If Dasein is that specific development of subjective self-con-
sciousness referred to as an identity, the opening for Being is whatever
y
is allowed by that particular identity’s value and truth structure.
In these perspectives, what is determinative is that Dasein
itself—as cogito, or subject, or identity—“‘gets into the picture’ in 
precedence over whatever is.” Whatever is, is forced “back into
this relationship to oneself as the normative realm” (“AWP” in QCT
129). The world becomes my “picture” of it, and Being is cut to fit
that picture. The world, in other words, is all about me.
In contrast to these perspectives, Heidegger proposes the 
metaphor clearing, a metaphor which, as Michael E. Zimmerman 
points out, has been implicit in the Cartesian model all along:
“Modern philosophy posits a gap between subject and object
because it has failed to notice that a temporal clearing (transcen-
dence) is needed for subject and object to present themselves in 
the first place” (Eclipse of the Self 25, emphasis added). In Heide-
gger’s model, absent the normative self-referring subject, there is
simply the clearing itself, and the lighting of whatever is:
In the midst of beings as a whole an open
place occurs. There is a clearing, a lighting. 
Thought of in reference to what is, to beings,
this clearing is in a greater degree than are
beings. This open center is therefore not
surrounded by what is; rather, the lighting 
center itself encircles all that is, like the
Nothing which we scarcely know. That which 
is can only be, as a being, if it stands within 
and stands out within what is lighted in this
clearing. [. . .] The nature of truth is, in itself, 
the primal conflict in which that open center is 
won. . . . (“OWA” in PLT 53, 55)
“


=== END OF PAGE 413 ===