=== PAGE 18 ===

4
SPEAKING BEING
thesis is that the work of Werner Erhard makes available the ontological domain of 
language, so that the decentering of subjectivity and the reinvention of the self can
be experienced as possibilities rather than merely considered as theory. 
We recognize that this pedagogical model is in many ways a radical one, given
the strength of the assumptions embedded in our tradition; but Heidegger says that 
an experience with language in the ontological domain always requires “a leap.” 
As our educational institutions struggle increasingly to generate an opening for the
human in the face of the advance of the technological, we argue that the situation is
critical, and that a leap of this kind is in order.
The Plan of the Book
The central text for this book, located in the left and right columns on either page, 
is the combination of two sources: notes taken by the senior author while observing
a Forum in San Francisco led by Werner Erhard in December 1989, and a transcrip-
tion of the video of the same four-day event made available to the junior author on 
location at Landmark Worldwide’s archives. While the transcript provides compre-
hensive and detailed conversations of the actual 1989 Forum, there are important
alterations that must be accounted for. First and foremost, all names have been 
altered except for Werner Erhard, and actual names have been used only for those 
participants who speak more than once or twice with Erhard or the other two indi-
viduals leading the course (“Kipp” and “Wes”). In addition, some conversations have 
been edited out, or summarized, for the sake of space. For instance, all discussions 
dealing with the Six-Day Course, discontinued in 1990, have been removed. Also
missing from the transcript is the Evening Session of the 1989 Forum: there was 
no extant video recording of that event. However, that omission can be rectified 
for interested readers if they were to attend an evening session of The Landmark
Forum, where participants will share their experience of the course for guests they
themselves have invited.
We call the text that accompanies the transcript either “sidebars” or “intervals.” 
Sidebars occur in the central columns between the far left and right panes that 
house the transcript of The Forum, and the intervals occur between sessions of the
course, and at the conclusion of each of the four days. In the sidebars and intervals 
are relevant ideas from the thinking of Martin Heidegger. Sometimes the connection 
between a sidebar and the transcript it accompanies may be apparent; sometimes 
it may be intended obliquely, as a hint at the background. Intervals are more often
oblique in this way due to the focus on Heidegger’s thinking in its wider arcs, for 
and limits our way of being. However, this context of meaning cannot be spoken
directly. It becomes present by virtue of what is said.
The dynamic of Erhard’s technology of language responds directly to issues 
raised by Heidegger in his 1954 essay, “The Question Concerning Technology” (Basic 
Writings). Technology’s essence, proposes Heidegger, is its relentless demand that
all of nature, including human beings, be placed in standing reserve, on call for the
uses of technology itself.  The way of being evoked by this development (i.e., that we 
ourselves function as “calculable material” in a cybernetic system designed to serve 
ourselves) poses the danger that we may become lost in the profound reflexivity of 
that system, and, most fatally, may forget that anything has been lost. Surrender to 
technology “threatens man with the possibility that it could be denied to him to en-
ter into a more original revealing and hence to experience the call of a more primal 
truth” (“QCT” in BW 333). Such surrender, however, seems inevitable: the technolog-
W
ical epoch is where we have landed, the only way of being we have been provided, 
and resistance is as futile as surrender is fatal. 
But Heidegger suggests a middle path, a “comportment toward technology
which expresses ‘yes’ and at the same time ‘no’” (DT 54). Further, he proposes that
T
“essential reflection upon technology and decisive confrontation with it must hap-
pen in a realm that is, on the one hand, akin to the essence of technology, and, on 
the other, fundamentally different from it”(“QCT” in BW 340). We suggest that Wer-
W
ner Erhard’s work provides such a realm. It is both a manifestation of the technolog-
ical epoch and a subversive appropriation of its impulse, a thinking which reaches
beyond the technological paradigm by reaching through that paradigm.
In Academia
 For half a century, postmodern and poststructuralist theories across many disci-
plines have theorized a new freedom from the constraints of the Cartesian model
of human being. Human subjectivity has been decentered; the self is no longer 
understood as the fixed and self-certain cogito but is open to creative reinvention;
language does not merely re-present a preexisting world of objective meanings, but
in fact generates the meanings that constitute that world. 
These theoretical assertions concern being. But their effective communication
in the universities has been hindered by our epistemologically-based academic
tradition, which assumes that the central dynamic of education is knowing. This has 
given rise to a pedagogical model in which the ontological domain must always re-
main merely conceptual, because being is not apprehended by knowing. The book’s


=== END OF PAGE 18 ===