=== PAGE 131 ===

 
 
Forum Day Two: Session One Interval 117
of its own accord whether, as the entity which it is, it has that state of Being which 
is disclosed in this interpretation” (BT 362). But really, isn’t it more accurate to say
T
that the words into which Dasein is being put are Heidegger’s words (and likewise, 
Erhard’s words)? Heidegger is creating his own hermeneutical vocabulary here. Why 
should we accept these terms as valid?
Heidegger is not arguing that we should. He is not proposing a final truth, but 
a step on the way, and he asks that we—as ourselves Dasein—decide “of our own 
accord” whether we find value in his interpretation. This is always the way that 
thinking advances—through the development and testing of new vocabularies. In
the field of psychology, Freud invented a vocabulary to describe the behaviors he
observed in his work. He did not “discover” the ego and the id, but invented them, 
and for decades they demonstrated their validity through their use by generations of 
psychotherapists. More recently, they have been largely supplanted by other vocab-
ularies, or by psychotropic drugs; and many of Freud’s terms have taken their place
in our everyday usage, where excessive neatness is routinely characterized as “anal” 
behavior, and an inflated ego is considered as natural as a sore elbow.
Werner Erhard regularly frames his work as a new vocabulary to be consid-
ered. “We ask you not to believe anything that’s said in here,” he tells The Forum 
participants at the outset of the four days. Instead, he says on numerous occasions,
“consider the possibility,” or “stand in that theory and look at life,” or “try it on.”
¥
In the passage below, taken from an audiotaped 1986 seminar, we present an 
example of Erhard’s phenomenological approach that is quite diff erent from that
demonstrated in The Forum. This seminar is a working session, in which he is inter-
acting with Forum graduates to develop distinctions on the subject of leadership, a 
subject that Erhard has continued to develop in subsequent years into what is now
called the Being a Leader and Exercising Leadership Eff ectively Course: An Onto-
logical/Phenomenological Approach. His method here is oft en framed in a sports
metaphor, in which the ideas to be “bracketed” are characterized as the comments 
of observers (“up in the stands”), while “the things themselves” are the events as 
they are experienced by those engaged in the game (“down on the court”). 
ERHARD
What’s on the court when you’re on the court, rather than what’s on the court 
when you’re up in the stands? What’s actually there like a presence? Peter?
PETER
Me watching somebody else.
ERHARD
Okay, very good. So if we stand back from the whole thing, there was you in 
the stands watching somebody else. Now, you notice something down with 
the people you were watching, which is the comment of an observer giving an 
account. When you were giving that account, what was the guy and the gal on
the court . . . what was present?
PETER
(Silence)
ERHARD
Now let me give you a little clue about how to do this. One of the things that I 
imagine was present was somebody. Is that true? There was actually somebody
there. . . . You don’t get leadership on an empty court. . . .  So this is kind of 
obvious, but at least it’s a place to start: that leadership as a presence is people.
Okay. So what else is there, like a presence? People, we got that much. What
else, like a presence, is present?
PETER
There’s action.
ERHARD
Okay, but what action? Okay, let’s just stay with that. There’s action. So leader-
ship as a presence presences itself as action. People in action. . . .
PETER
So all I have is a description of it, an observation.
ERHARD
Good. Now I want you to get down there on the court and tell me what’s there. 
So far what you’ve got down there is people in action.
PETER
So there’s . . . commitment.


=== END OF PAGE 131 ===