=== PAGE 270 ===

256
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
And the other “so” was in order to something else.
MOLLY
Well the whole thing was an in-order-to.
ERHARD
Yeah, good. Do you have any idea how sacrilegious that is? God in-order-to.
MOLLY
Every time someone called me from The Forum I ripped them off , because I was this holy 
person. I wasn’t there for them, because I was on a religious path. I faked it. When I got to The 
Forum, I looked around to check out how tough a job it would be for God. And what I found 
out was, that when I was four years old I could remember back, and I did this through the 
process of completing with my parents.
(addressing Erhard)
I saw that I could trust you. And you said that the bonus points came with completing with 
your parents. I saw that I’d never done that. I tried everything. I threw everything out. I saw that 
I had paid $625... when you said that I had paid for it, and that if I was going to give it back for 
free that I was a sucker... Whatever I heard that got me here was for me. I saw that I came to 
The Forum to get The Forum. And you have to save your own soul.
(laughter and applause) 
The room became very still as Molly spoke. Erhard sat on the platform in front of her, with Kipp and 
Wes seated nearby.
MOLLY (continuing to cry) 
I called my parents. I didn’t know how to do it. I was just standing there. They were both social 
workers, retired. I didn’t know how to say this. And what I felt was that all they’d ever done for 
me is love me. That was it. No matter what, it was love. It was like Eden. Somehow I was back 
in Eden. Everything was everything. They asked what was wrong. I said there was nothing to 
worry about. I told them I loved them and knew they loved me. “I’ve been hurt by all this stuff  
that happened, but I get that everything you’ve done was done out of love.” And they started 
telling me their stories, and doing their social worker stuff . What I got is that I didn’t know 
much about them.
ERHARD
People love all that process stuff . That’s why they’re off ended that The Forum is four days and 
one night. It’s not long enough. There’s not enough agony to it. When you can be with the story, 
you don’t get stuck with it. And if you can’t be with the story, they’re going to keep telling it 
over and over and over and over because you can’t be with it.


=== END OF PAGE 270 ===