=== PAGE 247 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 233
life. What got you there gives you the problems you got. It’s not that you fucked something 
up on the way. It’s that you succeeded. If you use what you got to get where you are, it 
produces success and a certain set of problems. You cannot solve those problems with that 
with which you succeeded, because those problems are a product of that which you used 
to succeed. Did you get that? Those problems are a product of getting here, and you can’t 
solve those problems with what got you here. Because what got you here, got you here and 
gave you those problems. You can’t solve the problems you have at the level at which you 
generated the problems.
KIPP
So what’s required is a new level of thinking. Here’s what that looks like: You want all my aces? 
Here! 
Kipp threw forward the pieces of paper representing his aces.
KIPP
But you can’t do that because if you did, you’d get used by life.
ERHARD
He’s a little too funny. And you don’t get it. You fucking assholes! You held on to your aces so 
you wouldn’t get used. You’re going to go to your grave holding your aces.
Kipp continued the bit, very fl amboyantly demonstrating not giving aces away to this wife, this job, 
etc.
KIPP
See, I wasn’t going to give my aces to my wife Christine, because she wasn’t the one. You 
know what the one looks like. Tall, blonde, always rides the horse and never wears clothes. So 
anytime I would be at a party with Christine, I wouldn’t stand too close to her in case the one 
came riding in on the horse, I could just jump on and ride off  into the distance. How about that 
job? You’re not going to give your aces to that job, that’s just the practice job. What about your 
body? The question is: What is going to be written on your gravestone?
ERHARD
You get the point. This is not your real life. You’re living your practice life. Nobody would 
be stupid enough to take their real life and do what you’ve done with it. Suppose you were 
married to your real wife–I mean like the real one. Man, you would give everything to her. 
Everything you’ve got. But the one you’re married to now is your “practice wife.” Here’s how 
you can tell. If she were the one, the woman of your dreams, you wouldn’t be like you are 
with her, and you know it. The same with your job. You don’t give everything you’ve got to 
this job. This is just a practice job. You keep your aces for when the real one comes along. 
That’s when you’ll spend your life on your life, when the real one comes along, but not on 
this life. 
If you use what you got to get where you are, it 
produces success and a certain set of problems.
You cannot solve those problems with that with 
which you succeeded, because those problems
are a product of that which you used to succeed.
“


=== END OF PAGE 247 ===