=== PAGE 150 ===

136
SPEAKING BEING
SESSION TWO INTERVAL
The Forgetting of Being, Part One of Eight: Getting and Losing 
In November 2013, while this book was in development, we delivered a presenta-
tion about it as members of a panel at the National Communication Association 
conference in Washington DC. Our thesis was that the ontological discourse of The 
Forum provides participants with direct access to an experience of Being. Following 
the presentation, an audience member asked this question: Aft er participants have
undergone the experience of Being that The Forum makes available, what becomes 
of that experience? Does it persist? 
This is obviously a central question for any consideration of Erhard’s work.
From its inception as the est Training, there has been a persistent quality of elusive-
t
ness, and therefore of mystery, 
y about the transformation this work makes available. 
People do not leave The Forum having gained the kind of cognitive understanding 
we generally expect from an educational process. The result, instead, is that by en-
gaging in the conversation that occurs in The Forum, participants have “gotten it,” in
somewhat the way that one gets a joke. Heidegger characterizes such a phenome-
non as undergoing an experience with language, which means that language “befalls
us, strikes us, comes over us, overwhelms us and transforms us” (“NL” in OWL 57).
The process is not linear; Erhard has described it as not getting it for a long
time, and then getting it all at once. But there is at the same time a recognition that
what you’re suddenly seeing is a truth you’d already always known at some level. 
Heidegger characterized it as “a leap” onto the ground on which we are already 
standing (WCT 233), and Erhard has characterized it in similar terms: “I can’t have it 
T
and give it to you. But I can communicate in a way so that you get an opportunity to 
realize that you have it yourself already. Essentially, this is what the est Training [and
t
later The Forum] was developed to do” (Bartley 169).
y
Heidegger’s German word for this kind of experience is Augenblick. The usual
translation is instant, moment, or split second; but Hubert Dreyfus says that in Heide-
gger’s use, the word is more appropriately rendered as moment of vision or transfor-
mation (BT, note 376; Dreyfus,
T
Being-in-the-World 321). In
d
Being and Time, Heidegger 
uses the word to designate the gestalt switch that occurs when a human being takes 
resolute ownership of his life and an authentic existence becomes possible (BT 387). 
T
Since the experience of The Forum is not understood in the usual way, neither 
is it retained in memory in the way that cognitive understanding is. Being can be
communicated, and the results reported by Forum participants give evidence that
its communication is experienced as transformative; but a quality of elusiveness
persists in the way that transformative experience is retained. Further, according to 
Erhard, the elusiveness is to be expected. “That’s the way it’s supposed to happen,”
he tells The Forum participants. “Getting and losing.”
 Why the elusiveness? What is it about Being that leads it to withdraw—as it
has withdrawn over two millennia from the human experience of existence; and as 
it withdraws repeatedly during The Forum dialogue as Erhard and the participants 
struggle to bring it to presence?
Heidegger has provided a response to this question in a series of lectures he
delivered at the University of Freiburg in 1935. Published in 1959 under the title An 
Introduction to Metaphysics, these lectures became his first book-length work to be 
translated into English. He later extended his thinking on the subject in four essays, 
published in 1975 as Early Greek Thinking. In these volumes, Heidegger locates the
source of Being’s withdrawal at the point of its first emergence. He calls this junc-
ture the beginning of history—the moment when the West’s first philosophers were 
beginning to think about the nature of Being, and to understand themselves as
world-creators.
 But in Heidegger’s account, Western thinking, at its very inception, failed to
capture the truth of Being in language. As a consequence, Being, and what its 
experience might make available, has been lost to us, and so thoroughly that even
its conceptualization defies our thinking. What does Heidegger see as possible 
if human access to Being was restored? He says that we would be opened to the
epiphany of a world (IM 69)—our everyday perceptions and experiences would occur 
newly, in a context of possibility that is not present in our current view of things. 
This context of possibility, he says, was available to humans in one brief 
moment of history. What became of Being? In this series on the forgetting of Being, 
during Intervals between sessions, we will present Heidegger’s account.


=== END OF PAGE 150 ===