=== PAGE 540 ===

526
SPEAKING BEING
KIPP (to laughter)
That’s what I thought when I fi rst came out.
ROB
After the second session, I was “this guy’s incredible.” Even though I’ve only talked to a few of 
you here, I love you all. I love who you are and I love who I am. I am comfortable in my own 
presence. Thank you!
KIPP
Thank you very much.
STEPHAN (wearing clerical attire)
I want to thank you Kipp, Wes, and Werner, of course, but you and Wes in a very special way, 
because you were with me in a very special way. I’ve been complete with my parents and my 
sister, who are dead now. And the completion I got is a great joy. And now out of this I get to 
pray to my parents. They are now with me, to empower me. That’s an immense gift. The other 
gift I want to acknowledge for you out of the whole process of the empty and meaningless and 
being down in the shadow of the Valley of Death, you know, that’s our territory...
(laughter)
I want you to know that I put on my meaning suit. This is a meaning suit, full of meaning. 
What I want to thank you for is being able to live again my priesthood. And I declare that I am a 
renewed priest, and available for the transformation of people everywhere, the people especially 
who are in religion, and if I can be selfi sh, in my own church, but for all people. God bless you 
and thank you for that.
KIPP (to applause)
Thank you very much!
(walking back up to the platform)
So, in the interest of sleep, we’ll go on and what I’d like to get created a little bit for you is 
our Forum Evening Sessions coming up next week. And The Forum Evening Sessions are 
designed to complete The Forum, and there are two aspects of the completion of The Forum. 
One of the aspects is contributing this. As many of you said since being here, it took a lot to 
get you here, and it’s now an opportunity for you to contribute the possibility of The Forum in 
everybody’s life in your life. That’s one aspect of The Forum Evening Session. And the other 
aspect of The Forum Evening Session is designed to create the third part of The Forum. The 
fi rst part is about unconcealing the being of human being. The second part is about creating the 
possibility of being for human being, and the third part of The Forum is discovering your life as 
a commitment to possibility. So The Forum Evening Session could be said to be about the rest of 
your life. And it really is the completion of that. 


=== END OF PAGE 540 ===