=== PAGE 231 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 217
ERHARD
You think I’m saying “so what” like a put-down, but I’m not. I’m just saying “so what.” 
Now you’ll do that when you do and you won’t when you don’t. Just like you did before you 
discovered that. And then you’ll go on to some other asshole thing. Really. You were in a very 
good place when you stood up at fi rst. Stay there for a while. Really. Don’t you understand? 
Thirty-four years of trying to make it, I found out I never was going to make it. I got really 
clear I was never going to make it. Never going to be anything enough. I found out I was a liar 
once. There was a time when my whole life was a lie. But there was a moment when I found 
out that everything that came out of my mouth was phony. I decided to stop lying. I almost 
didn’t talk for a year, because I couldn’t get anything to come out of my mouth that wasn’t a 
lie. “Where’s the toothbrush?” was about as close as I could get. Whatever I said, it was in-
order-to, I was up to something, it was a con someplace at some level. What happened on that 
day this work began for me was I realized I was never going to be honest enough to make it. I 
was always going to be exactly as honest as I was. I was never going to be less honest or more 
honest than that. And if in three days I was going to be more honest, I was more honest, and 
if in three days I was going to be less honest, I was less honest. And however honest I was on 
that day, that’s how honest I was.  
TONY
What you’re talking about is living in the present.
ERHARD
No, not quite. I don’t like that hippie shit. That’s horseshit for me.
TONY
I just got something.
ERHARD
What?
TONY
That my whole life I needed a mission in order to feel great about my life.
ERHARD
See, you’ve never done anything. I realized I knew nothing, because everything I knew, I knew in 
order to: I knew nothing as itself. Everything I knew was distorted, had a certain twist to it, a cast 
of color. It was never its own color. Everything I knew in-order-to—in order to make the world a 
better place, in order to get ahead, in order to look good, in order to get ahead—is all horseshit in your 
mouth, because it all has to do with looking good. So there’s nothing ruthless about it Tony. None of 
it is itself. The tree is a tree: just a tree. It’s a tree. It’s not “in order to enjoy it.” It’s not “in order to” 
anything. It’s a tree, like, a fucking tree. So I was real sad for a long time—about fi ve minutes—
then I started to laugh because I saw the joke of it all: the total joke. Because the realization was, 
A chief quality that marks Being and Time as Heidegger’s masterwork 
is that while it was written at an early point in his long career, and 
although in later years his thinking took some significant turns, 
Being and Time has nonetheless retained its stature. We see this as 
evidence for the presence of the Same in Heidegger’s thinking over 
time—the single thought that lies at the heart of every thinker’s 
thinking, and remains always unthought in that thinking (we will 
take up “The Same” in the sidebar of that title following “The 
Violence of Meaning,” which follows this one). 
As a narrative, Being and Time tells the story of Dasein, 
which arcs from inauthentic lostness in the “they” to authentic 
resoluteness. If, as Hubert Dreyfus suggests, we take Dasein to 
stand for human being, then as the being who understands, who 
interprets its self, Dasein must have a self that undergoes this 
adventure. But the self of Dasein, as Heidegger distinguishes it, is 
not the familiar ontic/psychological self—not the accumulation 
of experiences and preferences that is generally represented 
when one says “I.” Rather: “Dasein’s selfhood has been defined 
formally as a way of existing, and therefore not as an entity 
present-at-hand” (BT 312). The self of Dasein is not a being, but a 
way of Being. If there is no “I” to choose, how is choice, and the 
freedom it posits, even possible? 
In its current manifestation, the specific way the self of Dasein 
occurs for itself is determined by the interests of the “they” (please 
see the last sidebar of Day Two Session One). The rules, the tasks, 
and the standards have been determined before Dasein was thrown 
into the game, to assure the survival of the “they,” and that’s the 
way the world is. 
But the real issue in this situation is not that Dasein’s choices 
are limited; the problem is that they are not yet Dasein’s choices. 


=== END OF PAGE 231 ===