=== PAGE 487 ===

Forum Day Four: Session Three 473
NICK
What I wanted to ask, you know, I’m standing at the threshold of not what I used to call 
possibility, but of nothing—like, really nothing.
ERHARD
There is no possibility for an authentic conversation for possibility until you are standing on 
nothing. And Nick’s gotten us to the right place because that’s where we are going. We need to 
demonstrate something. You have to watch that The Forum gives you a platform to stand on, 
and then The Forum is designed to pull the platform out from under you. So remember that 
whenever you get set, we’re going to pull the platform out from underneath you. “Oh now I got 
that! I got my racket!” Now we’re not interested in rackets. That’s horseshit. What is this rackets 
crap? Don’t get stuck back yesterday. Be with today. It’s a new ball game.
(pausing)
The question is: What is the source of action? Why do I act the way I act? I’m defi ning action 
broadly. Normally we think of action as just some kind of moving. Consider that your feelings 
are a kind of action, a kind of action in the world, and that your thoughts are a kind of action in 
the world. And so we’re asking in a broad sense, what is the source of action? Why do you and I act 
the way we act? Now there’s a standard answer, isn’t there? There’s an everybody-knows answer; 
there’s an everybody-knows answer, isn’t there? If I ask you “Why did you do that?” There’s an 
everybody-knows answer, and the answer that everybody knows is “I did it because I fi gured out 
that it was the right thing to do,” or “I did it because I have this thing in me that makes me act 
automatically, or I did it out of my experience, or my intelligence, or I did it out of my training.” 
It’s like that. Why are some people more eff ective in their actions than others? Tell me why. Why 
are some people more eff ective in their actions than others? Well some people have more talent 
than others, right? So we’ve got this notion that there’s something inside of us whence springs 
action. We look at someone and say that person has more talent than me and so they act more 
eff ectively than I do. Or he has more experience. Or she has more training than I have. Or he is 
more intelligent than I am and so he fi gures it out better than I can. We have an idea it’s talent, 
experience, training. I want to get you oriented because it’s not a question anybody asks. Nobody 
ever asks you what is the source of action? They ask why did you do that and you come up with 
that stupid reason, which doesn’t have any access to the source of action. But if you stop to ask the 
question... so I want you dwelling in the question, and I want you dwelling in the answer you dwell 
in. Let’s get this “dwelling” straightened out. You don’t think that the source of action is something 
inside you. You are that the source of action is something inside you. You don’t need to think it. 
Everybody get that? It’s not merely something you think. Without thinking you and I are that the 
source of action is something inside of people: either a quality you have, or an experience you have, 
or knowledge you have, or something of the sort. And I want you to see that you and I go through 
life and deal with life and deal with ourselves dwelling in that the source of action is something 
inside of ourselves. Anybody who can’t see that? Get your hand up.
SHERYL
I don’t see it.
takes an action that I find inconsistent with her generally generous 
behavior, I may say to her, “You are being stingy.” In the first case, 
my statement suggests a defect in the being she is; in the second 
case, I am pointing out an unpleasant way she is presently be-ing 
that being. The verbal diff erence is slight, but the diff erence in 
implication is significant. 
By the time of Plato and Aristotle, says Heidegger, on and onta 
had become conceptual—that is, they had become representations 
of already-thought ideas. They appear for us today as the roots 
of the words ontic and ontological. But for the pre-Socratics, who 
were for the first time raising questions about existence itself, the 
distinction between the event of be-ing—that is, emerging into 
unconcealment—and the entity which emerged and persisted, had 
never been thought before. 
As we have seen, physis is an ambiguous term with a complex of 
meanings, including both the event of a being’s emergence into 
unconcealment, as well as the being that has thereby emerged 
into unconcealment. The early Greek thinkers experienced this 
phenomenon in its entirety, says Heidegger. Their world was 
grounded in what the scholar Charles Guignon has called an 
“event ontology” (A Companion to Heidegger’s Introduction to 
Metaphysics. 36)—that is, they experienced not only the beings 
in the world, but their emerging and presencing as well. 
They experienced the logos as gathering. But they 
experienced it, says Heidegger, “without question” (IM 66).
In the thinking of Heraclitus the Being (pres-
encing) of being appeared as logos, as the
Laying that gathers. But this lightning-flash re-
mains forgotten. [. . .] In fact, the Greeks dwelt 
in this essential determination of language.
But they never thought it—Heraclitus included.
[. . .] Nowhere do we find a trace of the Greeks 
having thought the essence of language direct-
ly from the essence of Being. (EGT 76–77)
“


=== END OF PAGE 487 ===