=== PAGE 329 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
315
MARGARET
That obvious, right?
KIPP
It’s that obvious for everybody, isn’t it, except you walk around like it’s not that obvious. 
MARGARET
Well, for me it’s never lived like that. It’s always been that I’ve had to make sure it was fl awless, 
to cover all the little seams up, so people wouldn’t fi nd out.
KIPP
Wouldn’t fi nd out?
MARGARET
That I was afraid that people wouldn’t love me, and the one I was hiding most from is me, or 
that I love people. It sounds like such a stupid thing to say. That I walked around like I was a 
machine. I’ve been like a machine.
KIPP
What do you mean by that?
MARGARET
Well, like... the easiest way I can say it is I had no right to be. I was always trying to get some-
where or do something.
KIPP
Yeah, but what I’m saying is that’s a little conceptual... I don’t hear you sharing yet.
MARGARET (after a long pause)
Okay. I called my mother. I was very upset with my mother, because I just got married a month 
ago. She didn’t want to come to my wedding.
KIPP
No no. She didn’t want to come to the wedding or she didn’t come to the wedding. 
MARGARET
She didn’t come to the wedding. But I had it that she didn’t want to come to my wedding and it 
meant all these things.
KIPP
It meant?
How do I understand these things? 
The view in which the equipmental contexture 
stands at first, completely unobtrusive 
and unthought, is the view and sight of 
practical circumspection, of our practical 
everyday orientation. “Unthought” means 
that it is not thematically apprehended for 
deliberate thinking about things; instead, 
in circumspection we find our bearings in 
regard to them. Circumspection uncovers and 
understands things primarily as equipment. 
[. . .] We say that an equipmental contexture 
environs us. (BPP 163, emphasis added
P
)
“
I can of course assume a detached role in relation to the world, 
taking on understanding as a science, or an intellectual task to be 
accomplished. But this always happens against the background
of the world I already know from being in it. The background
understanding comes first.
World is not something subsequent that 
we calculate as a result from the sum of all 
beings. The world comes not aft erward but 
beforehand, in the strict sense of the word. 
[. . .] The world as already unveiled in advance 
is such that we do not in fact specifically 
occupy ourselves with it, or apprehend it, but 
instead it is so self-evident, so much a matter 
of course, that we are completely oblivious to 
it. (BPP 165
P
)
“
It is, in a metaphor often employed by Werner Erhard, like water to 
a fish: fundamental to existence, yet unavailable to our purview. 
We see the beings within that purview—they occur as extant, which
for Heidegger means that they occur as substantial things in the
world.


=== END OF PAGE 329 ===