=== PAGE 279 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three Interval 265
It may be helpful to consider the situation this way:
For the Pre-Socratic Greek thinkers, to whom a new level of world-awareness was
becoming accessible, pre-phenomena presented themselves in a state of “originary 
unity”—an “overwhelming coming-to-presence that has not yet been surmounted 
in thinking” (IM 67), an upheaval of entities and forces not yet held in language, their 
M
boundaries uncertain, their natures and relationships not yet fully distinguished.
To use a phrase that is central in the work of both Erhard and Heidegger (a term
further discussed at the Session Two Interval), we might say that these pre-phenomena
lived as possibilities for Being. As undistinguished, however, they swam without
limits in the realm of possibility. The sway designates that realm, a realm of Being
which is not yet in-the-world but is on the verge. These pre-phenomena may also be
usefully understood as possible meanings, or not-yet-meanings, and the sway may
therefore be seen as a realm of meaninglessness (an experience of this realm—which 
Heidegger refers to as the Nothing—will be seen to be a critical aspect of The Forum
transformation). The not-yet-meanings, presumably, might include both physical 
and non-physical pre- phenomena that had not yet pressed forward to be named 
and distinguished as possibilities—such as microbes, sexual abuse, gravity, ethnici-
ty, digital communication, homophobia, and egotism.
Heidegger has distinguished a mode of speaking he calls Saying, which has 
the force of bringing forth, rather than merely re-presenting. “The essential being
of language,” he says, “is Saying as Showing” (OWL 123). This is languaging that 
generates. In the speaking of the Greeks, which Heidegger calls originative Saying,
a world was brought forth.
Physis, then, is: Being brought forth by originative Saying to stand in the world; 
as well as the beings brought forth and set into limits by the naming; as well as the
process by which beings and Being emerge. Physis is the “event of standing forth,
arising from the concealed and thus enabling the concealed to take its stand for the
first time” (IM 16).
All of this, as we have said, is essentially talk about something that cannot be
talked about, and here Heidegger scholar Susan Schoenbohm suggests the chal-
lenge we face in attempting to analyze this phenomenon:
“
How, if at all, is it possible to render in words that which “is” 
previous to any being, word, or name? How to articulate the 
very coming-into-being of determination for the first time? [. . .] 
In its most originary meaning, physis means the emerging, for 
the first time, of something out of no determination at all . . . in
other words, the process of something’s coming-to-be-something 
from nothing. (A Companion to Heidegger’s Introduction to
Metaphysics. 148)
For the Pre-Socratics, not-yet-beings were becoming manifest as possibilities. The 
task for humans was to bring them forth, from a background of meaninglessness, to 
stand as beings in a world of meaning. 
Emerging into the world as a possibility, a being enters a lighting “from which
whatever lingers awhile in presence can be appropriately collected and brought
forward by mortal legein,” by human naming (EGT 70). Naming
T
for the Pre-Socratics 
was not merely providing a label; it was distinguishing a possibility of meaning, and
therefore of Being. Here, in a passage from the second day of The Forum, Erhard 
describes the process:
“
Distinction is an operation in language. In the normal course
of events you and I think of language as something we use to 
report on something. . . . But now we’re distinguishing a new
kind of operation in language. It’s an operation in language
called generating. It’s as though I said “chair” and a chair fell
out of my mouth. . . . What distinguishing is, is to take some-
thing like an undiff erentiated mass and to bring forth from 
that mass a realm of possibility.y  Distinction gives existence.
It makes existence possible.
From the undiff erentiated mass of the sway, the Pre-Socratics were distinguishing 
the possibilities of a world.
Heidegger describes the events of this time as a process of strife, “not war 
in the human sense” but “strife that holds sway” (IM 67, emphasis added). The
Greeks were engaged in a struggle to bring physis—the turbulent sway, vacillating
in its persistent emergence and withdrawal—to stand in the world, by naming and
diff erentiating its elements as beings:
“
As Heraclitus thinks it, struggle first and foremost allows what 
essentially unfolds to step apart from each other in opposition, 
first allows position and status and rank to establish themselves 
in coming to presence. In such a stepping apart, cleft s, intervals, 
distances and joints open themselves up. In con-frontation, 
world comes to be. [. . .] This breaking forth, breaking up, cap-
turing and subjugating is in itself the first opening of beings as
sea, as earth,
s
as animal. (
s
IM 67, 174)
M


=== END OF PAGE 279 ===