=== PAGE 390 ===

376
SPEAKING BEING
When participants returned from the break at 1 pm, Wes and Kipp were on the platform.
WES (referring to a minor earthquake that happened during the break)
Did you notice that coming from empty and meaningless, an earthquake is just an earthquake?
(some participants raising their hands)
Okay. Wait a second. We’re going to extend an invitation to you that makes sense when you can 
come from dwelling in empty and meaningless. We invite you to a campaign, a campaign against 
reasonableness. We’re inviting you into a campaign to destroy reasonableness in your life.
(applause)
So we have a question for you so you can confront what the campaign would mean and what
it would look like in your life. Look now at the reasons you have for not participating in life. So 
you’re looking through the areas of your life where there has been no participation, and instead 
of participation, there have been reasons for not. You have to actually start going through your 
life. When you are looking from where we are in The Forum now, you can see things you didn’t
see before. And you’re looking at where there could have been participation, and there wasn’t
and isn’t. And all there is are reasons for not. What new openings are there for participation?
Preston, who spoke at length at the beginning of Session Two of Day Three, stood and took a micro-
phone.
PRESTON
I knew before I got here that I was not going to be allowed to take notes.
KIPP
Right.
PRESTON
This is like: I don’t know of a greater threat to me.
KIPP
An enormous threat.
PRESTON
I’m running my racket, but I’m running it like a coyote through the back roads. And I noticed
on the fi rst day that no one had said, “no notes.” We hadn’t gotten to the promises, so we were 
in the pre-promised land, and I’m making my notes. You know, nugget following nugget, which
I can eventually read later when my brain will at least serve me for that because I don’t trust my 
brain. So I’m suddenly confronted with the fact that I really haven’t promised that I’ll keep the 
promises, but I’ve been keeping them so far because that’s what I’m doing so far.
FORUM DAY FOUR: 
SESSION TWO


=== END OF PAGE 390 ===