=== PAGE 25 ===

 
Forum Day One: Session One 
11
LYNETTE
Do you have any more advice about how to get the most out of this?
ERHARD
I do and we’ll go over that this morning.
TRENT
I hear there are Forum leaders here.
ERHARD
Forum leaders are here as part of their job.
TRENT
Four consecutive days instead of two weekends?
ERHARD
We’ve done this using odd schedules in diff erent settings, for instance, in  prisons.
BLAKE (who expressed reservations about speaking)
Continuing what you were saying as far as upset is concerned, and always being with you. My 
barrier is the fear of revealing who I am. I should accept that.
ERHARD
Whatever you think is in the way, especially those things you think are part of the circum-
stances—for instance, you don’t get along with your boss and it’s quite clear to you that’s 
because you work for a jerk—bring that in here. Blake is clear that it’s something he carries
around with him; it doesn’t come out of the circumstances. That’s easy. It’s the stuff  you think
is a product of the circumstances. So if there are circumstances in here, for instance, because
there are people observing—that sounds like it is a product of the circumstances.
CHRISSY
You talked about being in The Forum whatever way you are being. What about outside
The Forum?
ERHARD
Let yourself be like you are in those parts of The Forum that are outside The Forum, for
homework assignments during the breaks, etc. If that’s your mood at the moment, don’t try to
change it. You want it there because if it isn’t there it’s not going to get dealt with—particularly 
those things you think are part of the circumstances: bring that in here. Most of what you do
outside The Forum in the next four days is going to be inside The Forum. If you do something 
to avoid that, then you’ve successfully avoided that once more. See, there’s a lot of this you’re
his development of an ontological/phenomenological model of 
leadership (https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/ cf_dev/ AbsByAuth.
cfm?per_id=433651), he continues to employ the lowercase. 
In this book, we will employ capitalization in those instances 
where it clarifies the word’s meaning in a specific sentence. 
We raise the point here to emphasize the unique nature of the
issues that arise in any discussion, oral or written, of this subject. 
Being/being, as an ontological phenomenon, defies grammatical
categorization. ■
NOTE:  As of 2019, Landmark Worldwide’s Forum leader 
faculty included more than 60 people, representing a diver-
sity in gender and race, and hailing from countries including
the United States of America, India, Japan, Australia, 
New Zealand, the United Kingdom, Canada, Israel, the
Netherlands and Switzerland. 


=== END OF PAGE 25 ===