=== PAGE 30 ===

16
SPEAKING BEING
SAL 
No.
ERHARD
So the intentionality organ is not operating when it produces fl oods?
SAL
No, that just happens.
ERHARD
But it doesn’t just happen that when it rains life is sustained? Remember, Sal, there’s no ques-
tion between you and me that water does sustain life. The  question is: does it rain in-order-to? 
Or does it just happen, and by the way, it sustains life?
At this point Sal seemed to see Erhard’s point, and sat down.
ERHARD (to Sal)
Okay. Now, just something personal between you and me. I’ve done this a lot. There’s some-
thing I appreciated about you in this conversation. You were open in the conversation.
(to the group)
Nobody’s ever going to win with me in here. Because this is my game, and only an asshole 
would try to win in another guy’s game. You and I had a discussion where we got something
t
together. Rain is impersonal. We weren’t talking about a higher order of things. I don’t want 
anybody to believe anything I say. And I’m not interested in sustaining anything you believe.
BLAKE (recalling what had happened up to this moment in the conversation)
I know that there was some sequence and I missed it. I mentioned that I was nervous, that I 
didn’t like it, and then we were talking about the rain.
ERHARD (to the group)
He just demonstrated not knowing, being clear he didn’t know. That’s diff erent from being con-
fused. This is one of those things to get. There’s a diff erence between knowing that you don’t
understand, knowing that you didn’t follow something; knowing something didn’t make sense 
and being confused are very diff erent. You didn’t invent being nervous. Even though the rain is 
impersonal, you do personally get wet. The same thing goes for being nervous. Being nervous 
is part of being human. Being human doesn’t belong to you; you belong to it. You didn’t invent 
being human. You were late for the party. Being human is an already always way of being that
you walked into. It’s like a rainstorm, and it’s true you personally got wet. You are a human
Ontologic al Dialogue
A striking aspect of Erhard’s method, one which appears again 
and again throughout The Forum, is his persistence in pressing 
any interaction or any topic of discussion through to completion. 
Complete, for Erhard, does not mean simply finished, but rather 
whole, and lacking none of its essential parts. Repeatedly, after 
he has been engaged on a particular point with an individual, he 
requests that others in the room who are not clear on that point 
stand, and works with each participant individually until all of 
them have “gotten” it for themselves. Erhard often uses the term 
“flatten” in the same sense, as in “Let’s get that one flat before 
we move on.” To get something flat, in an ontological dialogue, 
means that the item in question has been moved beyond a purely
conceptual level of understanding, and has been distinguished 
as an ontological possibility, at least in a preliminary sense. The
distinction will continue to be teased out as The Forum proceeds, 
ultimately becoming a clearing for Being; but the first step in that 
process is to flatten the concept, so that its ontological possibility 
can be heard. 
Of course, “getting it” and “being complete” might be 
read as “having surrendered to Erhard’s point of view.” Erhard 
himself seemed to support this interpretation, telling one Forum 
participant Blake, “Nobody’s ever going to win with me in here. 
Because this is my game, and only an asshole would try to win in 
another guy’s game.” During a debriefing session with The Forum 
leaders regarding their role in the dialogue, Erhard again referred 
to the process in agonistic terms: “You’ve got to have some 
appreciation for the advantage you’ve got there,” he said. “And 
yeah, you’re going to use the advantage, that’s part of the game.”


=== END OF PAGE 30 ===