=== PAGE 84 ===

70
SPEAKING BEING
questions the asking of which makes a difference. There are certain questions, just the asking of 
which impacts people’s ability in life. See, you and I don’t look for those questions, we look for 
answers, which you can only find in what you know that you don’t know. This is about devel-
oping questions the asking of which gives access to what you don’t know that you don’t know 
about your life, about other people, and about living. The Forum is about developing a certain 
muscle for asking questions the mere asking of which makes a difference.
Here Erhard read a passage from Heidegger’s On the Way to Language (page 13), in which Heidegger
recounts his dialogue with a Japanese scholar:
ERHARD (reading)
“Japanese: We Japanese do not think it strange if a dialogue leaves undefined what is really 
intended...”
(to the group)
That’s not very familiar to most of us, is it? In our dialogues we want to get definition very 
quickly. We want it explained.
(continuing to read)
“...or even restores it back to the keeping of the undefinable. 
Inquirer: That is part, I believe, of every dialogue that has turned out well between thinking be-
ings. As if of its own accord, it can take care that that undefinable something not only does not 
slip away, but displays its gathering force ever more luminously in the course of the dialogue.”
(to the group)
That means putting it back into “don’t know that you don’t know.” It’s a harmonic with what 
I read you earlier about the unspoken. See, what you’re looking for here is light, not answers. 
Insight you can’t create by the numbers. What you want if you’re going to create is light, not 
answers. Listen up, goddammit!
(continuing to read)
“Our dialogues with Count Kuki probably failed to turn out so well. We younger men chal-
lenged him much too directly to satisfy our thirst for handy information.”
(to the group)
You’re here listening for answers. You’re listening for what we call “tips.” Nothing worthwhile in life 
can be gotten there by ten steps. Or twenty steps. You can’t dance knowing where to put your feet.
(continuing to read)
“Inquirer: Thirst for knowledge and greed for explanations never lead to a thinking inquiry. 
Curiosity is always the concealed arrogance of a self-consciousness that banks on a self-invent-
ed ratio and its rationality.”
(to the group)
What that all means is that this greed, this thirst, the question, “How am I going to use this?”—
that’s a product, according to this guy, of a concealed arrogance, an arrogance that everything 
“ 
There are certain questions, just the asking of 
which impacts people’s ability in life.
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 84 ===