=== PAGE 322 ===

308
SPEAKING BEING
The Forgetting of Being, Part Six of Eight: Saying Nothing
The bundle of concepts associated with non-Being and the negative—emptiness, 
meaninglessness, nothingness, nihilism—are of central significance in understand-
ing the rhetorical movement of The Forum. They are likewise fundamental in the 
work of Martin Heidegger; and are deeply embedded in the perspective of Zen, an-
other major influence on Werner Erhard’s thinking. According to the Japanese schol-
ar Masao Abe, who has written extensively about the relationship of Zen to Western 
thinking, “Martin Heidegger takes the issue of ‘nothingness’ not only with utmost 
seriousness, but perhaps with the most profundity in Western history” (Maseo Abe, 
Zen and Western Thought 134). For both Heidegger and Erhard, a transformative 
ontological event—an experience of Being (of what it means “to be”)—demands an 
authentic encounter with Being’s other side; and a conversation that aims to evoke 
such an encounter makes special demands, since, says Heidegger, “there is, aft er all, 
something peculiar about Nothing” (IM 30). 
We cannot overstate the importance of this element in Erhard’s work. Central to 
his achievement has been the development of a rhetorical structure—manifested in 
both the est Training and The Forum—that consistently provides participants with 
an experience of nothingness as a liberating context for their lives. The experience 
is evoked by a progression of ontological distinctions, generated in speaking by 
the Forum leader and developed dialogically with the participants. What is made 
present in the dialogue—heard, though unsaid—is Being; and its presencing occurs 
in a particularly dramatic way. One of Heidegger’s central claims is that an experi-
ence of Being must be preceded by an experience of Being’s other side, nonbeing, 
which Heidegger called the Nothing. Human existence, he says, means “being held 
out into the nothing” (“WM” in BW 103). This requires that one open oneself to an 
experience of meaninglessness, an experience that one may encounter in moments 
of anxiety, despair, or profound boredom—moments when the meaning of life drops 
away, and one confronts existence nakedly, without the familiar comforts of one’s 
personal identity. Human beings, says Erhard, are addicted to their identities, and 
an addiction cannot be dealt with eff ectively until the addict has “hit bottom.” But 
for Forum participants, most of whom have achieved a comfortable level of personal 
and professional success, such an experience may never arise—without assistance. 
Therefore the function of The Forum is to “raise the bottom” so that participants hit 
it; and where this happens is in the confrontation with the Nothing, as the conversa-
tion’s penultimate distinction.
END OF DAY THREE INTERVAL
In Heidegger’s work, of course, the distinctions are presented in writing. While
many of his published works were originally delivered as lectures, and although
he is reported to have been exceptionally dynamic in their delivery, there is little 
evidence that dialogue was an element of his pedagogy; and in the cultural context
in which he worked, certainly nothing like the personal interactions of The Forum
would have been possible (see the sidebar “Heidegger’s Pedagogy,” in Session Two
of Day Two).
But consider: while Heidegger’s collected works include 102 volumes, he is gen-
erally acknowledged to have been single-minded in his exploration of one question:
the question of Being and its meaning. As he wrote in 1947, “To think is to confine
yourself to a single thought that one day stands still like a star in the world’s sky”
(“TP” in PLT 4)
T
. Significantly, a few pages later we find: “What is spoken is never, and 
in no language, what is said” (“TP” in PLT 11).
T
In Heidegger’s writing, then, the distinctions that he created to speak Being are
generated and communicated in the unspoken/unwritten background. There is, we 
propose, a central encompassing distinction—the Distinction—that is hinted at by all
of the distinctions, a “single thought” that remains unspoken and the Same through 
all of the turns and evolutions of his thinking. The rubrics for the various distinc-
tions that comprise the Distinction, such as the Same, the they-self, and the Nothing,
occur repeatedly throughout his work as he opens new ways into the distinctions,
beginning from diff erent originating terms. In an essay from a collection entitled 
Holzwege (“Woodpaths”), Heidegger wrote this:
“
“Wood” is an old name for forest. In the wood are paths 
that mostly wind along until they end quite suddenly in an 
impenetrable thicket. They are called woodpaths. Each goes 
its particular way, but in the same forest. Oft en it seems as 
though one were identical to another. Yet it only seems so.
Woodcutters and foresters are familiar with these paths. They 
know what it means to be on a woodpath. (Quoted in Krell, 
“Introduction,” BW 34)
W
For the authors of this book, our experience of Werner Erhard’s work has enabled 
us in negotiating the “impenetrable thickets” of Heidegger’s writing—if not with the 
skill of woodcutters, at least with the sense that we are always on a way. 
Krell comments that in Germany, “to be on a woodpath” means to be in a cul-
de-sac, a path that leads nowhere and has no exit. As an analogy for the rhetorical 
strategies we find in the work of Werner Erhard, the “no exit” image is of interest. 


=== END OF PAGE 322 ===