=== PAGE 349 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
335
is reasons. “Well I really tried to produce that result. And you know I tried this and I did that, 
and this happened and this happened.” “Oh, I understand: Well, as long as you really tried; 
as long as you really meant it; you really were sincere.” “I understand” often means, “Okay, 
I’ll give you that one as long as you put up with my bullshit for not producing the result I said 
I would produce. You’ll accept that then, too, right?” See you’re either at The Forum on time 
or you’re not. You’re either on the airplane when it leaves or you’re not. The airplane does not 
care about the traffi  c jam you got into. It just leaves, and you stand there like a jerk watching 
it leave, complaining about the unfairness of life. You either keep your word or you don’t, with 
regard to life. Life is not fair. Children think life should be fair. Some people—most peo-
ple—never grow out of that, and they argue about the fairness or unfairness of life, and their 
reasons for what they have done and why they did it, and why it should have been this way, 
and their story, and it’s all stuck together; and people are asleep, and what keeps them asleep 
is reasonableness. And by the way, it is very real when you’re discussing it. The basis for your 
reasonableness ultimately is your commitment to your story. But the level of living your life 
we’re discussing now is called reasonableness, and it stinks. You know, like, we invite you to 
participate in something and you will deal with “why are we doing that?” and “should I be do-
ing that?” and “how come we’re doing that?” and “what’s really happening?” And you’ll never 
deal with the off er and the possibility of the off er. So one way to listen to Sarah’s sharing is: 
Somebody who’s willing to give up reasons in her relationship with her son, and relate to him, 
like straight, like “here’s what I say and I’ll take what you say and out of what we say to each 
other, we’ll be committed to it as itself and not deal with all the story about it that’s not being 
communicated.” So, she can acknowledge being an incompetent parent, which by the way 
is only a conversation anyway—which I know you know—but it opens something up. That 
conversation opens something up. She doesn’t have to explain it, and justify it, and make her 
son wrong, like he’s the reason for her incompetence. He doesn’t have to deal with her reasons. 
He can just deal with her self, and they can deal with each other. See: That’s a breakthrough. 
That’s what’s possible in terms of participating in life when you can step out of your story, and 
let the fl oor be there, let life be there, let your self be there, embrace it, and play with it. But you 
have to give something up. You have to give up your signifi cance and your commitment to rea-
sonableness. You need to know what it looks like, really. What you look like—your story, and 
your reasons for it, and the justifi cations for it—really are absurd. Time for another newspaper 
article. I’m going to show you what a life looks like, carried to the extreme, when someone’s 
commited to some meaning, some signifi cance, some reasons and justifi cations for their life. 
Here Wes read a newspaper article which demonstrated reasonableness carried to an extreme. It
was the obituary, from the Los Angeles Times, of the musician Billy Tipton, who had died earlier in 
1989. It was headed “Death reveals musician who lived as man to be woman.” At her death at the
age of 74, it was revealed to friends and family that Tipton, who had lived as a man, had been in
reality a woman. Tipton died poor, said Wes, and tired of keeping her secret.
WES
There you go. Aren’t you tired? Of keeping the secret? Think it’s worth giving the secret up? 
You think it’s worth giving up what you’ve been withholding from life? You know what you’ve 
been withholding from life? Your self. What you’ve been giving to life is your secret; what 


=== END OF PAGE 349 ===