=== PAGE 220 ===

206
SPEAKING BEING
(laughter)
Participants who had not yet shared in The Forum were asked to share their experience of the 
exercise. 
PARTICIPANT
I was feeling my body all scared, and I felt like I didn’t want to be left alone. I like to pretend like 
I’m okay when I’m alone. 
WES
Do you see a new possibility for yourself?
PARTICIPANT
To let people know I’m afraid.
WES
Powerful people are afraid and have the power to communicate that when it would make a 
diff erence. Thank you.
(applause)
PARTICIPANT
I’ve always pretended to not be afraid. I remembered a childhood experience. I didn’t want to 
go to school. I was afraid to do anything. I really am afraid of my children. I always have to be 
strong. I didn’t cry when my dad died. I completely suppressed it. I’m willing to be with my 
being scared.
WES
Great. Thanks.
(applause)
PARTICIPANT
I haven’t shared yet because I’m afraid. I got that it’s so ludicrous to be afraid of all these 
people who are so afraid of me. I’m in a diff erent world now. I can see the faces out there, and I 
couldn’t before. That wasn’t possible before.
WES
Thanks.
(applause)
Anxiety throws Dasein back upon that which
it is anxious about—its authentic potentiali-
ty-for-Being-in-the-world. Anxiety individualiz-
es Dasein for its ownmost Being-in-the-world, 
which as something that understands, projects 
itself essentially upon possibilities. Therefore, 
with that which it is anxious about, anxiety
discloses Dasein as Being-possible... Anxiety 
makes manifest in Dasein its Being-towards its 
ownmost potentiality-for-Being—that is, its
Being-free for the freedom of choosing itself 
and taking hold of itself. Anxiety brings Dasein 
face-to-face with its Being-free-for the authen-
ticity of its Being, and for this authenticity as a
possibility which it always is. (BT 232)
“
Anxiety as the abyss of nothing has morphed into anxiety as 
a clearing for the freedom of possibility. This is the essential 
movement of The Forum, hinted at persistently and in many 
iterations throughout the conversation. This is the reflexive 
rhetorical moment that will be achieved in its fullness by The 
Forum’s conclusion, and for which the Danger Process has greased 
the slide. In Heidegger’s terms, this is the event of appropriation.
In anxiety, we are confronted with the fundamental possibility 
of our existence, because the people, things, and events which 
usually have meaning for us are suddenly without significance. 
Literally, they mean nothing: “When anxiety has subsided, then in 
our everyday way of talking we are accustomed to say that ‘it was 
really nothing.’ And what it was, indeed, does get reached ontically 
by such a way of talking” (BT 231).
We call attention to Heidegger’s use here of the qualifier 
“ontically,” which refers to facts and concepts within the realm 
of beings. That is, it is conceptually accurate to say that what we 
But now watch closely; something important is happening:


=== END OF PAGE 220 ===