=== PAGE 521 ===

Forum Day Four: Session Three 507
talking about here: What we’re talking about here is empowering yourself, not reducing the 
risk. We’re not talking about giving you the answers so that you know how to beat people; it 
just reduces life and people to a three-year-old. That’s silly. If the point was getting to the top of 
Mount Everest, some goddamn entrepreneur would put an elevator on it. The question is: How 
powerful and how able can you be in the face of the risk called Mount Everest? 
(pausing)
Okay. So we’re almost home. We’ve got two more defi nite steps. And the fi rst step is a step 
called responsibility. Remember the choice exercise? You discovered something about choice 
that was inconsistent with the interpretation you already had that choice was, and that there’s 
a certain power to distinguishing choice the way you distinguished it during the exercise. Same 
thing about responsibility. The fi rst thing you want to get is, responsibility is not blame or guilt 
or fault. When I say I’m responsible, I’m not saying I did it, or I am to blame or that I’m guilty. 
When I say I’m responsible, what I mean is that I stand for being cause in the matter. Not “I 
caused it.” It’s a stand for being cause in the matter. 
(indicating the “possibility” circle)
And you can’t take a stand without this domain. Without this domain, your stand is a mere 
position. Some position you’ve taken on the matter. I don’t know if you’ve been watching this 
over the past four days, but your positions have gotten you into a lot of hot water. Your positions 
have ruined your life a little bit. Or a whole lot.
(pausing)
Without this domain... See, a possibility is established by taking a stand for something as a 
possibility. A position is established by setting something up as something toward which you 
are working. Possibility is something you are free to realize, which is diff erent than something 
you are working towards. It’s like you’re free to realize whatever it is that you’re willing to stand 
for. That’s diff erent from working towards something. Can you imagine: Working toward hitting 
the ball over the net in tennis does not make great tennis? Or working toward dancing. My 
mother only made one mistake in raising me. She sent me to the Bala Cynwyd Women’s Club to 
learn to dance. This was a big mistake.
(laughter)
Knowing where to put your feet is not dancing. I didn’t know that for a long time. 
(indicating the “possibility” circle) 
The action in this realm is declaration. 
(indicating the “story” circle) 
The action in this realm is assertion. 
(indicating the “what happened” circle) 
The action here is expressives. These are Speech Acts, but that’ll get too complicated. To 
understand declaration, you have to go to an umpire convention. 
See, a possibility is established by taking a
stand for something as a possibility. A position
is established by setting something up as some-
thing toward which you are working. Possibil-
ity is something you are free to realize, which
is diff erent than something you are working
towards. It’s like you’re free to realize whatev-
er it is that you’re willing to stand for. That’s
diff erent from working towards something.
“


=== END OF PAGE 521 ===