=== PAGE 539 ===

Forum Day Four: Session Three 525
BERNICE (very moved)
This is the fi rst time I’ve gotten up to share. I don’t know if I can make it without crying. I want 
to acknowledge someone I haven’t acknowledged in about ten years of my life. And that’s my 
brother. I love you. He introduced me to The Forum and I fought him every step of the way. One 
of my rackets is that people are setting me up to fail, and I had thought: “If you set me up here, 
I will never forgive you!”
(laughter)
But you have given me more with this Forum, than I’ve ever gotten from anyone in my life. And 
I love you so much. I also want to acknowledge and thank Jane. Everything she said, I felt so 
deeply, and there are no words to describe my gratitude. But, I just want to say, I think you are a 
truly beautiful person, you have the courage to stand up and tell people, and I owe you for that. 
Thank you.
KIPP (to applause)
Very well said!
VICTOR
I don’t know where they are in the room but my brother and my mother are here and I take my 
hat off  to you, and I want to say that I love the both of you. You are my family, and are pretty 
much the most important thing in my life. I thank you for giving me the chance to see who I 
was, who the hell I really was. I love you. And I thank all the people that shared. I saw a little of 
my self in each and every one of you. And now I know who that is and I have to accept and be 
with that I’m a human being.
KIPP (to applause)
Well said! Thank you!
MIC
This is the fi rst time I’ve gotten up to share, and I was pretty sure I’d get through the whole 
Forum without having to. I want to thank the people who I’ve had conversations with, each 
one is an exceptional person. And I want to thank my girlfriend, who was the fi rst person to 
introduce me to The Forum and basically put up with all my shit. I just want to say thank you, 
and I love you, and I will tell you that in private, but right now I want everyone to hear that 
also. I love you.
KIPP
Beautiful!
ROB
I didn’t expect you to call on me! I did est back in 1974, and it was great. A lot of things 
happened in between, and everybody has said what I want to say. I just feel at a loss for words. I 
want to express my gratitude for you Kipp. When you fi rst came out, I thought, “who is this?”


=== END OF PAGE 539 ===