=== PAGE 95 ===

Forum Day One: Session Five
81
PARTICIPANT
I noticed I was really exhausted.
KIPP
So what you just did was unconceal a fundamental condition that human
beings are. I asked you to sit in your chair and think about what’s happening
right now, and what did you do? By the time you get around to describing
what’s happening right now, it’s gone. Yet everybody stood up authentically, 
honestly, and described what happened then but said it was what is now.
There’s no description available for now. So you’ve got to have the representa-
tion. But what’s present is clearly distinct from the representation. And what it
is to be a human being is not to have that distinction. This is what happened at
the party before you got here. The domains of presence and representation got
collapsed. The moment you say what was happening is what is happening, the
representation starts to shape the presence.
ERHARD
What’s the diff erence between now and your representation of now? You 
can never describe presence because there’s no description in the realm of 
presence. If this isn’t making sense, don’t worry. The valuable stuff  in here
will not make sense. But it’s valid. “Make sense” means “fi ts with what you 
already know.” To get what doesn’t make sense requires thinking. What Kipp 
is trying to get you to get is that you don’t make any distinction between love
as a presence and love as a story. Is there anybody in the room who can’t see 
that existence as a presence is diff erent from existence as a concept or repre-
sentation?
(pausing)
Life exists in the world of concepts and life exists in the world of presence. 
But that’s misleading, because the two get collapsed. Something happens,
like a “what happened.” And that devolves into a concept. What happened
back then is never present like a presence. But that’s not clear to you. You
think you’re dealing with what happened when what you’re really dealing
with is your story about what happened. One is not better than the other. 
The problem is when they get mixed together. This creates a vicious circle: 
the concept of your previous experience now becomes a fi lter for your next 
experience, which is now a little less free because it is conceptually shaped. 
The conceptually shaped experience reinforces the concept; the reinforced 
concept more fully shapes the experience. I’m trying to drive out this seven-
ties bullshit that there’s something wrong with your head. I’m an anti-human 
potentialist. I’m not saying that you’re stuck in the concept. I’m saying that 
you’re stuck in the vicious circle. I don’t want questions. I want to know: 
“Did you get that?”
(pausing)
Good. Everybody got that. So now we’re going to demonstrate what happens 
when you’ve got that distinction. Once you get a distinction, it uses you. Three
distinctions to get: one is the realm of existence called presence. The second is 
the realm of existence called concept or representation. The third is the vicious 
circle. The vicious circle is constructed by a collapse of the fi rst two domains.
(pausing)
We’re going to play a new game. We’re going to do a survey. How many of you 
are tired? 
(a majority of participants raised their hands) 
How many of you have a headache? 
(calling on a young woman named Diane)
Would you be willing to participate in a demonstration? Then please come up
here onto the platform.
Diane sat in the second director’s chair that an assistant placed alongside the fi rst.
ERHARD
Would you be willing to have your headache disappear?
DIANE
Yes. 
ERHARD
And would you be willing to not know why it disappeared? 
DIANE
Okay.
ERHARD
Please close your eyes. How long have you had your headache? 
DIANE
Since before the dinner break.
ERHARD
How big is it?
(hesitating, she holds hands outstretched)
Where is it located? 
(pointing to her left temple)
What color is it?


=== END OF PAGE 95 ===