=== PAGE 469 ===

Forum Day Four: Session Three 455
MONTY (to laughter)
I’m lost.
KIPP
Right. Yeah, it’s easy to make somebody else not be like that, therefore you can sell out. Because 
if somebody has some quality, like leadership, or ability, or talent, or whatever that is, and you 
don’t have that quality, that property, you get to say, “If I had that property, I would be great like 
them, but since I don’t, I won’t.”
MONTY
Yeah.
KIPP
I don’t mind the interpretation “leadership,” you know, if there’s this stuff  called leadership, 
except what I’ve noticed is, if you don’t have it, you’re out of luck. As long as there’s this stuff  
called leadership, or skill, or talent, or ability, you’ve got to get it somewhere.
MONTY
Well that’s what I came here for.
KIPP
Exactly, or if leadership is a conversation, you’ve got access to it, don’t you? You have access to a 
conversation?
MONTY
Yeah. 
KIPP
Exactly. So I’m inviting you to consider that leadership or whatever it is that you see that calls 
you to be is a conversation. And the conversation that you have been listening to is not worth 
your life. That’s the one you’ve been honoring. 
MONTY
Yeah. Good. Thanks.
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 10)
When Werner was talking yesterday, or you were talking, and he talked about, if this work 
“calls” to you in some way... When I participated in this work for the fi rst time thirteen years 
ago, this work called to me. You know, I can remember sitting in that room in New York City, 
present to that this was somehow how I knew life could be, like a possibility, really. Whether I 
liked it or didn’t like it, or whether I felt like I belonged, or whether I felt like I didn’t belong, 
I was called to that. It spoke to me. So I said “yes” to whatever was in front of me, and I kept 
saying “yes,” and I kept saying “yes,” and I kept saying “yes.” And I’m left with a couple of 
things out of this Forum for myself, and one is that...you know, I lead The Forum almost 


=== END OF PAGE 469 ===