=== PAGE 495 ===

Forum Day Four: Session Three 481
occurs as going. See you and I think that the guy who hits the ball over the net in tennis all the time 
has skill. No. That’s a guy for whom the ball comes over the net very slowly and very big. That’s the 
diff erence between him and me. He does not have some property inside himself that I don’t have.
JERRY
So you’re using “occurs” as the way the ball is perceived? The way the ball is seen or perceived?
ERHARD
Yeah, I don’t like that and it’ll get you into trouble if you push it too far, but yes, that’s a correct 
understanding. It’s not mere perception. It’s not mere seeing. It’s an ontological phenomenon, 
not a physiological phenomenon. It’s the way the ball occurs. So here’s what I’ve said so far. 
Your actions are not a correlate of “is.” Your actions and her actions and my actions and his 
actions are all perfectly correlated to the occurring ball. And why some people look clumsy to 
us is because we don’t realize their actions are correlated to the occurring ball; we think their 
actions are correlated with the is ball. It is going a certain speed. It is in their sights for a certain 
amount of time. 
JERRY (laughing)
This sounds pretty simple to me now.
ERHARD
Yeah, it is.
JERRY
Everybody else have that?
ERHARD
Yeah, they got it listening to you.
JERRY
I guess my problem was I didn’t know what you meant by occurring and what you meant by is.
ERHARD
You and I don’t dwell in the distinction called “occurring.” You and I dwell in the distinction 
called “is.”
JERRY
Why not?
ERHARD
A thing called stupidity.
JERRY
Kids dwell in occurring, don’t they?
being is an event—an event with language, and therefore very 
diff erent from trees, but nevertheless a happening, like all of the 
other beings in the world, where absence is always the background 
accompaniment to presence. Nonexistence is the background for 
your existence. 
According to Heidegger scholar Charles Guignon, such a 
world is what Heidegger was aiming to retrieve for human beings. 
Guignon calls it an event ontology, an alternative to the substance 
ontology that has dominated Western thinking, in which the world 
is just a collection of things. Such a world of events may sound 
tenuous and risky; but consider: might you, reborn anew in every 
moment of now, be more alive to existence? Might such a world be 
more vivid, more challenging, more engaging? Might living in that 
world keep you on your toes, or on the edge of your seat?
Heidegger proposes that the reality we have imagined here 
was what the world was like for the early Greeks. This is also the 
nature of the transformation that occurs in The Forum, where 
participants get Nothing as a liberating context for their lives. ■


=== END OF PAGE 495 ===