=== PAGE 376 ===

362
SPEAKING BEING
which arises only in language. There is no good or bad outside of language. Now good and bad 
is very real stuff . But it’s a phenomenon that only exists in language. 
(loudly)
Listen up, goddamn it! You’ve stopped thinking again. You think you’ve got it so you don’t have 
to think. The fl oor as an object exists independent of language. That clear? For whom is that 
not clear? Put your hand up if that isn’t clear? 
(looking around the room)
The existence of the fl oor as an object doesn’t require language. Is that clear?
(pausing) 
Good. Is there any such thing as art independent of language? Where there is no language, 
is there art? No, because art is a phenomenon that arises only in language. Now you assholes 
think I said art’s not real and fl oors are. I didn’t say that. Art is very real. It alters the course of 
history, has a profound impact on the culture, changes people’s lives, brings things into peo-
ple’s lives that would not be there were it not for art. It’s very real stuff . It’s real, and it does not 
exist independent of language. Art is a phenomenon that only arises in language. Is that clear? 
There’s no such thing as beauty independent of language. Beauty is a phenomenon which only 
arises in language. There’s no such thing as beauty independent of language. Beauty is real, 
and it does not exist independent of language. You need to start thinking and stop believing. 
You believe too much. There is no such thing as art or beauty or design, no such thing as 
love and happiness. None of the things that are important to you in life exist independent of 
language. Birds don’t build homes. Nests are hard-wired into birds. You don’t understand that 
then don’t get engaged in the conversation. That part of the conversation. Only agents with lan-
guage, only people build homes. Homes are a phenomenon that only arises, only in language. 
So there’s no such thing as beauty or art. Here’s what you want to get out of this. Not beauty or 
art: This is not a course on aesthetics. What you want to get out of it is that there are certain 
phenomena that arise only in language. Over where your dog is, nothing is bad. You know 
where bad is for your dog? Where you are. That’s where bad arises to the dog, because bad is 
a phenomenon that only exists in language. Independent of language there is no bad. There is 
no bad in an earthquake for the earthquake. There’s only bad for people with language...sorry: 
entities with language. And that’s the same thing about good. But it’s very real stuff . It’s not 
unreal. Now, language comes out of silence, which is a form of empty and meaningless. Good 
and bad come out of nothing. It doesn’t come out of inherent good or bad. It’s not like you can 
ignore it. It’s not like it isn’t true. It’s real stuff , and it arises only in language. You can’t report 
that something is good. You can’t give a report that something is bad. Good and bad only arise 
in language. You can’t talk about something being good: Now you do, don’t you? That’s because 
you’re stupid. You talk about things being good and bad. You talk in ignorance that what you’re 
talking about when you talk about good and bad is talking. That’s like talking about talking, 
you understand? When you talk about good and bad you’re talking about talking. 
(to Sally)
You were saying?
Caputo’s point is important, and is central to a consideration 
of the path which Heidegger is inviting us to follow. The authors 
of this book are certainly among those whom Caputo has
described as “excited and enthusiastic” about the possibilities 
of Heidegger’s thinking. However, we do not claim to have 
“experienced what Heidegger experienced”: we do feel an affinity 
for that realm of experience about which he speaks; that affinity 
is due, at least in part, to our participation in the work of Werner 
Erhard. Thus, in the face of Caputo’s challenge, we must ask 
ourselves whether we have truly confronted the “austerity and
danger” of Heidegger’s path.
This is a question that must be asked persistently—a 
question which must be stood within, rather than answered—
since Being must be continually wrested from, and contextualized 
by, non-Being. The nihilation of the nothing must be ongoing. But 
the original encounter is fraught with agon, that is, with contest: 
human resistance to confronting the Nothing is fundamental. 
The Nothing’s enormity so violates our everyday identity that we 
instinctively close ourselves to the possibility which it contains. 
Heidegger states:
We are so finite that we cannot even bring
ourselves originally before the [N]othing 
through our own decision and will. So 
profoundly does finitude entrench itself in 
existence that our most proper and deepest 
limitation refuses to yield to our freedom. 
(“WM” in BW 106)
W
“
Therefore, the struggle to provide an authentic confrontation with 
the austerity of the Nothing, and to overcome the resistance to its 
realization, is a central element of The Forum.
The important questions to be considered in comparing 
Heidegger with religious models of transformation, such as
Meister Eckhart, are these: what might be the transformative 
power of a leap into the truly unknown rather than into the 
arms of a comforting and fatherly God? Might not the “danger”
of Heidegger’s thinking, that abysmal lack of certainty which 
characterizes his leap, in fact constitute its possibility? Might not 
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 376 ===