=== PAGE 185 ===

Forum Day Three: Session One
171
SPEAKING 
BEING
DAY THREE
Day three of The Forum began at 9:00 am, with The Forum leader, Kipp, on the platform asking 
participants to share about the assignment from the previous evening: to share their experience of 
The Forum with someone in their lives.
KIPP
When you talk about what happened, people are left, and you’re left, with whatever description 
gives you. We’re going to call that domain of speaking “up in the stands.” Does talking to the 
person next to us about what’s down on the court impact the game? Now I’m asking you to get 
on the court and share from being on the court. Here’s how it starts: “Who were you with?” 
“You said what?” “What did they say?” 
Wearing a dark gray sweater-vest with black slacks, Erhard appeared in the back of the room, 
watching the interaction. 
BETTY
I phoned my brother last night, and I told him, in the beginning of him harassing me to make a 
decision of being here, that I wasn’t sure of... that I blamed him...
KIPP
You said you blamed him?
BETTY
I said I blamed him. This is the conversation that we had. “I blamed you Bob for me being here 
because I didn’t want to be here. It’s your fault and I hate you for it.” 
KIPP (to the group)
You’re right there with her because she’s not talking about sharing, she’s sharing. You’re right 
there on the phone with her. Then what did you tell him?
BETTY
I told him that I was sorry for how I felt, that I had no right to feel that way, that I was the one 
who was wrong and selfi sh.
KIPP
And he said?
BETTY
He said that he loved me, and that the reason that he wanted me here was because it would be 
good for me. And I told him that I didn’t want to see it from his point of view; to see it from my 
point of view, and it took me to get through yesterday to realize that. I got through that point. 
I realized it. I’m here. It’s great for me. And I told him that I appreciated him for making that 
decision for harassing me. 
FORUM DAY THREE 
SESSION ONE


=== END OF PAGE 185 ===