=== PAGE 340 ===

326
SPEAKING BEING
WES
Great. Stop trying to get out of the trap. That’s how you get out of the trap. You stop trying to 
get out of the trap; just stay in the trap. You accept the trap. Then your relationship to the trap 
transforms. Look: Stay with this because this is important for everybody else. See the fl oor? 
Okay.
(pacing back and forth)
I’m just doing whatever I’m doing right now, right? And in terms of my ability to go through 
reality right now, there’s no problem, right? But there’s a fl oor there, okay? I want you to imag-
ine that I had an argument with the fl oor being there. Okay? I’m going to show you what that’s 
like.
(looking back and forth down at the fl oor)
What the hell is that fl oor doing down there? This is the stupidest fl oor I’ve ever seen. My 
mother doesn’t like this fl oor. I don’t like it. It should be a foot higher. Who was the stupid per-
son who put this fl oor here? They’ve got to change this right now.
(to Raphaela)
You see where I am in relation to this fl oor? I’m stuck with it. I’m in an argument and a com-
plaint about this fl oor. I’m not accepting the fl oor. This fl oor is wrong. Not okay. It ought to be 
diff erent. I should change it. It’s a problem and I’m totally stuck with the stupid fl oor. What it 
takes to transform my relationship with the fl oor is to let it be the fl oor as it is. And then the 
fl oor and I get along perfectly well. And nothing’s changed. The fl oor is still there. So that’s an 
analogy to your relationship to your racket. You know, if you can let your racket be, it’ll give 
you some possibility of being. The way you let your racket be is you realize that it’s empty and 
meaningless. Your racket’s designed to add meaning to everything. It doesn’t mean anything.
RAPHAELA
I got that.
WES
Good. You’re now up to date with The Forum. Congratulations.
After the applause, Kipp called on a participant named Kenneth.
KENNETH
I thought I had a lot of this fi gured out because I took the training. I also thought I had it fi g-
ured out that there’s no meaning because I gave up religion. I’m a native Californian.
(laughter)
I’ve had a lot of attachments to the way things ought to be. My karma is like my religion. I 
didn’t even see that. I thought I was really clear with things. I have a huge trap. I have a savior 
complex. In my line of work I’ve seen a lot of people with savior complexes. That’s my schtick. 


=== END OF PAGE 340 ===