=== PAGE 172 ===

158
SPEAKING BEING
makes you and me the way we are? The standard interpretation as to how you and I got to
be the way we are has no power. It gives me nothing to say about it. I can’t talk myself into
being. A lot of the lack of freedom is constituted in your relationship with your parents.
The single most important learning experience in my life was doing programs with teenag-
ers. The ten-day course for teenagers we used to do in the mountains—let me tell you what 
I found out about teenagers. After ten days, you find out that the single most important
thing in your life is that you love your mother and father. And that’s no shit. And there’s
very little structure in a teenager’s life to express that. You’ve got to get that resolved, and if 
you’re smart you’ll get it resolved tonight. We’ll let you out of here early enough to call your
mother, call your father.
(forcefully
(
)
You just gotta get off  it. You’re wasting your time and money in here if you’re going to stay on it 
with your parents. 
(in response to a question about what it means to be complete)
What I meant by being complete... your parents have got to be all right with you exactly the way 
they are. Your parents don’t owe you a thing. They don’t owe you their love. You are not entitled
to your parents’ love. You owe them. I know, it’s a bitch. I don’t like it either. I don’t like gravity.
I don’t like being tied down. Gravity doesn’t care. It’s the way it is. Until you are complete with 
your parents you can’t be yourself. Just loving them isn’t enough. You’ve got to be able to fully 
be with your parents the way they are. You know, I spent most of my life tied to my mother’s 
apron strings. And she had very long apron strings. I deserted my family. They didn’t know 
where I was. Gone for years. I was still my mother’s little boy. I didn’t grow up till I was thirty 
something.
Here Erhard acknowledged a nineteen-year-old participant who had shared about his relationship
with his parents for being complete with them at an early age.
ERHARD (continuing)
I don’t know if you can see it or not, but until that happens you aren’t anything but your moth-
er’s little boy.
Erhard left the room at this point, and Wes took the platform.
WES
We’re now in the bonus category. This goes beyond The Forum. Look at your relationship with
your parents from the question: “Are they really all right with me?” What do you have to get off  
with them? Being complete never leaves anybody with something dumped on them. Use the din-
ner break to complete with your parents.  Find a telephone. Reach them. If your parents are not 
alive, fi nd someone with whom you are incomplete and complete with them. Is anybody unclear?
As Erhard returned to the room, Jane, a teenage participant, rose and spoke, her manner very shy 
and serious.
of the they-self governs. As participants share and disclose their 
stories, as they own up to and appropriate the ways they wound 
up being (owning their “thrownness”—see the next sidebar), and
further, as they grasp and admit the harm that justifying these
ways of being has wrought: the “social mood” of profound aff inity 
gets evoked. ■
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 172 ===