=== PAGE 325 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
311
When the fi nal day of The Forum began at 9:00 am, Kipp was at the front of the room. As soon as 
participants were seated, Kevin, the man who Erhard accused of being stingy, recommending that
he ask his wife about that, walked up onto the platform and handed a piece of paper to Kipp, who
then read it to the group. It was a signed video release form. The participants stood to applaud at
length.
KIPP
That’s exactly what’s going to be required in your lives, to have something beyond what the 
past has given you to happen. What you just saw was an act of something beyond being stingy, 
something beyond what the past has given him. And like Kevin, you’re attached. It doesn’t take 
much to get you deeply rooted in what you are attached to. I think what just struck a chord for 
you was to see someone go beyond what life has given them. That’s what it’s going to take to go 
beyond what life has given you: all day every day. That’s the choice you’re going to have. 
(to Kevin)
Kevin, I appreciate your courage. 
(to the group)
Sharing about the empty and meaninglessness that life is, or the meaning that you made of 
empty and meaningless. 
MARGARET
The only place where empty and meaningless is meaningful, is where it coincides with my 
racket, the only hitch is in there... This morning I called someone I’m engaged to...
KIPP  (interrupting)
That was a quick sentence: “the only place where empty and meaningless means something is 
where it coincides with my racket”—that’s the part you got to get. You see, where your racket 
is, no one dares to tread.
(laughter; to Margaret)
Yes?
MARGARET
My racket is: “I can’t quite have it... I can’t quite have it all.” It’s a joke. It’s such a joke. But I do 
run it with a real verve and panache and other words that go with it. I called a former... well I 
was engaged to marry him for a year and a half...
KIPP
So it’s perfect. Someone who “can’t quite have it all” gets engaged for a year and a half...
(laughter)
And not married.
SPEAKING 
BEING
DAY FOUR
FORUM DAY FOUR: 
SESSION ONE


=== END OF PAGE 325 ===