=== PAGE 434 ===

420
SPEAKING BEING
ILLIANA
You mean, whatever comes?
WES
Yeah. Take what you get and call that “attention.” Someone looks over at me, “great. That’s 
attention.” And then get along with my work. Not like “They didn’t look long enough. That 
must mean I’m not okay.” Swirling around in your racket. Who cares if you didn’t get attention?
Produce some results. And then you’ll die.
(laughter)r
ILLIANA
I want to ask a question. I would like to fi t my racket with what you are saying.
WES
Where is the “unfi t”?
(after Illiana asks Wes to read the board once more)
“I want to go the beach, but I don’t have any time.” That’s a problem.
ILLIANA
So that’s the “but”: “I want to get attention, but I don’t want to ask for it.”
WES
Great. That’s a problem, right?
ILLIANA
Right. 
WES
Let’s shift it: It’s a lie. It’s a racket.
ILLAINA
Okay.
WES
Tell the truth about it. “I want to get attention and I’m afraid to ask for it.” 
ILLIANA (smiling)
And I’m afraid to ask for it. So the “but” is creating the problem.
Some moments before you are aware of what 
you will do next—a time in which you subjec-
tively appear to have complete freedom to
behave however you please—your brain has
already determined what you will do.  You
then become conscious of this “decision” and
believe that you are in the process of making
it. (9)  
 The intention to do one thing and not another 
does not originate in consciousness—rather, it
appears in consciousness. . . . (8)
“
Fact Two
And, perhaps even less obvious is that both our way of being and 
our actions (arising together consistent with each other) is correlat-
ed with—is naturally, necessarily, closely connected with; or more
d
poetically, in-a-dance-with—the way in which what we are dealing
with occurs or shows up for us.  In short, our way of being and act-
ing is a natural correlate of (in-a-dance-with) the way what we are
dealing with occurs for us.  For example, if the way a situation we 
are dealing with occurs or shows up for us as threatening, our way 
of being and acting is likely to be a natural correlate of (in-a-dance-
with) the situation occurring or showing up for us as threatening. 
On the other hand, if the way a situation we are dealing with occurs
or shows up for us as an opportunity to excel, our way of being and 
acting is likely to be correlated with the situation
d
occurring for us
as an opportunity to excel.  
In summary, our actions are merely consistent with our 
t
way of 
being—that is, our actions are likely consistent with some combi-
nation of our mental state, emotional state, bodily state, and our 
thoughts and memories; but our actions are not caused by these
d
aspects of what is going on with us internally.


=== END OF PAGE 434 ===