=== PAGE 395 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
381
without saying anything, or directly about it, that I felt more intimate with the people that were
sharing in the group and that emotions were starting to well right up out of me. And I know I
can take that and be reasonable and say “Oh, that’s great, I’ll do this now all the time and I’ll
have these emotions and everything will be fi xed.” And hey, I’m feeling it.
KIPP
When you do.
BARRY
I am right now. I may not tonight or I may not tomorrow. Now I am.
KIPP
You always will when you do.
BARRY
I’m there.
KIPP
Thank you very much.
(applause)
So, we’re distinguishing this distinction called reasonableness. Is it so that in life you either 
have the results or the reasons for not having them? And is it also so that as a human being, the 
way it is to be a human being, is if you give yourself a suffi  cient reason that you also give equal 
weight to that? That’s enough reason for not having this result. So if the result doesn’t occur, 
where do you immediately look? At the reason why it didn’t. So we’re asking where in your life
do you have reasons for not participating. Please...
SANFORD
Well, sharing is one of them. For the fi rst day and a half in here I was sitting on a lot of shares,
I had lots of reasons, you know, the golden share, the whole bit. So now I have reasons for
sharing, so there’s really no way of getting away from either one. But beyond that, I’ve had 
reasons for not choosing a career, for not living into the full possibility of what life could be for 
me. Reasons for not keeping promises—made some promises to people back in Seattle about
being in communication with people in The Forum about various things around the work, and
just everywhere, everywhere I look. There are reasons for doing things and not doing it. When I
produce results I have reasons for getting the results. If I don’t get the results I have reasons for 
not getting them, but if I get results I have reasons for getting them. 
KIPP
Okay. Anything else?
truth except from a perspective beyond that truth, and that perspec-
tive must be created and discovered for oneself as one lives within
the rhetorical dialogue of The Forum as it unfolds. Participants of The
Forum are called, again and again, to stand in another perspective 
given by a level of truth altogether diff erent from the level from 
which life is ordinarily understood—as story, as Aletheia 3. However,
when someone speaks Being, names the primordial clearing that we
are, it can only be done at the level of “you do what you do and you 
don’t do what you don’t do.” The continuing creation and expan-
sion of this perspective—of unconcealment—is the work of Werner 
Erhard since the inception of the est Training.
t
But how does this unconcealment happen in The Forum?
We call attention to the environment of authenticity that has
been created in The Forum room over the past three days—first,
through disclosing the fundamental inauthenticity of human
beings through the discursive acts of distinguishing story and
what happened, racket, and so on; second, through disclosing
sharing as a particular way of communicating; and third, through 
the authentic sharing itself that has emerged in the participants’
interactions with Erhard and the other Forum leaders. 
In this environment, a new level of unconcealment becomes 
possible as stories begin to be heard as stories—even by the indi-
viduals telling them, those whose lives have been shaped and lim-
ited by the “truth” of their stories. Too angry and afraid to reveal
it, Marsha had maintained the deception of having it all together,
which began to “make her thin”; Angel decided as a child that she
would be the most caring person in the world as a way to over-
come her fear of not really caring at all; Mike became stupid and in
need of the help of others as a response to experiencing himself as
incompetent; Jane hides out to avoid experiencing the embarrass-
ment of rejection due to being worthless. These are disclosures, 
openings only possible from a point of view from which story and 
what happened are distinct and uncollapsed. Thus, as the shaping
power of the stories begins to waver, the presence of the underly-
ing circumstances emerges with a new clarity; simultaneously, a 
new freedom to be emerges.


=== END OF PAGE 395 ===