=== PAGE 435 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
421
WES
You see that?
ILLIANA (nodding and smiling)
Yes.
WES
Yeah. This is a woman who just got the lie in her life. Why you’re driven to the “but” is your 
racket. You’ll fi nd yourself taking things and putting “but” between them. Opposing them from 
your racket. You’ll have to train yourself in telling the truth.
ILLIANA
The “but” makes it fi ghting. “And” is making peace. 
WES
Yes! Very good!
ILLIANA
Thank you.
(applause)
Paul stood up again, the participant who can speak several languages and who struggled to get the
distinction “being inauthentic” during Session Two of Day One.
PAUL
I see something now about having my foot nailed to the floor. When you were going around
there: I saw myself one day going around in my living room in a circle, and it just cracked
me up that I did that. What’s come out of it, I sat there wanting to go into real estate, and
wanting to have a career in real estate, but I don’t know if I should because I... “I’m not re-
ally good at this, I don’t understand it. I really should go to school. But school takes a lot of 
money and I don’t have a lot of money and I hate my job. And I hate my job because I can’t 
make a lot of money.” It just kept going and going and going. What’s funny is that it led to 
me coming here, because I got that everything, this all is going to collapse and I’ll be dead.
If I don’t do something about it, or do something, it’ll be the end of me. Not only that, I can
see how I’ve done this with other things I love in my life, like music, that I’ve completely 
talked myself right out of it. It’s something I wanted to do but I started too late. I’m not
a great technician and I don’t have all these things. And I eventually lost sight of the fact 
that I just like making music. Instead of just being in that making music I’ve gotten tangled
up in all the little piddly details and it became a racket after a while. And it kept me from
dealing with the fact that I have to practice if I want to make it, and I didn’t want to. Now it
is so easy to see it. Now I’d like to get home and play.
You can confirm facts 1 and 2 for yourself by checking them
out in your own experience.  Regarding fact 1:  Is your way of being
at this moment—that is, some combination of your attitude, and
your feelings, plus your body sensations, and your thoughts and
memories regarding what you are dealing with—consistent with
t
your way of acting in this moment?  Or more pointedly, is your way 
of being and way of acting consistent with each other, virtually 
arising as one thing?
And then, fact 2:  Is your way of being and acting (arising as
though one thing) correlated with (closely connected with) the
way what you are dealing with occurs or shows up for you?  And, 
has that been essentially true in situations you have dealt with in
the past?  (For those of you who are tempted to do so, don’t stop 
at understanding the text of what we said; rather, take the time to
actually check it out in your own as-lived experience.)
d
In summary:  Our way of being and acting is correlated with
d
(naturally, necessarily, closely connected with; in-a-dance-with) 
the way in which what we are dealing with occurs for us.
During the course everything in this section will be gone over 
and made clear for you so that you can confirm its validity in your 
own lived experience.  In addition, the critical importance for being
a leader and the eff ective exercise of leadership of what has been
covered in this section will be dealt with in depth during the in-
class sessions of the course.
A Fact about the Way in which what we are
Dealing With Occurs for us
When we go through life such that who we are is whatever we are 
referring to when we say “I” or “me” (which is the way we usually 
do go through life), there is a background for the way in which life,
d
living, and self occur for us.  That is, when who we are for ourselves
r
is what we are referring to when we say “I” or “me,” this back-
ground (or we could say “environment”) for the way in which life,


=== END OF PAGE 435 ===