=== PAGE 516 ===

502
SPEAKING BEING
It’s a way of being, not features. You know, it’s nice to have good equipment, but too fucking 
bad, you’ve got the equipment you’ve got. Ugly is a conversation. That’s all it is. You can’t fi nd 
ugly anyplace in the universe except in people’s mouths. That’s a metaphor. Now I’ll say it 
rigorously. You can’t fi nd ugly anyplace but in languaging. And if you’re listening to this like 
some platitude, then you are truly an asshole. This is hard stuff  I’m taking about. Not “nice 
nice.” And “worthless.” Where am I going to fi nd “worthless”?
JANE
In the conversation “worthless.”
ERHARD
Yeah. Beautiful. See, you’ve got something to say about “worthless.” You’ve got nothing to 
say about your feelings. You can’t feel anything but what you’re feeling. You’ve got nothing to 
say about how you feel. But you’ve got something to say about worthless and ugly. Because 
worthless and ugly are a conversation, that’s all. One is a conversation for being worthless, or 
one is a conversation for being ugly. And that becomes the possibility in which life and the 
world and your own image occurs for you. You don’t see yourself when you look in the mirror. 
You don’t see yourself like an is, you see yourself like an occur; you see yourself as an occurring 
self, not an is self. And what occurs in the mirror is not in the mirror. It’s in languaging, 
therefore, you have access to what occurs in the mirror: Like a conversation for the possibility 
of being beautiful. It’s idiotic to walk around saying “I’m beautiful,” especially if you look 
like me. You look like her, maybe, because there’s some agreement for that. I didn’t say I walk 
around speaking positively. I said it’s possible for me to be engaged in the conversation for the 
possibility of being beautiful. I and you and the world will occur in the space, the clearing given 
by that conversation for possibility. And my actions, and my feelings, and my thoughts, will be a 
correlate of that occurring. And my actions, and my feelings, and my thoughts will work on the 
world. You getting this?
JANE
Yes.
ERHARD
And so you have something to say about this. What you say about it is none of my business. 
That’s your business. We know why you said you were ugly and worthless, because you got 
something out of that, right? For the payoff . Remember the payoff  conversation?
JANE
Yeah.
ERHARD
And so ugly and worthless was a racket for a payoff . But there’s no payoff  for the possibility of 
beauty. Beauty as an assertion, “I am beautiful,” like describing yourself, like you are an object, 
there’s a payoff  in that. But there’s no payoff  in the possibility of beauty. As a matter of fact it 
puts you further at risk, because now you’re at risk for being beautiful. When you’re ugly you 
technological artifacts do not disclose nature.
And, because in a technological society so much
of our world is filled with these “undisclosing 
artifacts,” we are cut off  from, become unaware
of, or forget the essential movedness or tran-
sience of existence. (Ibid.)
We remind the reader that we are not advocating a universal 
return to wooden furniture; we do not regret advances in medical 
science that employ new materials. To do so would be tantamount 
to the demonstration Wes carried out during The Forum, earlier 
in Day Four, of arguing with the floor. At the same time we are not 
making an ethical statement concerning what the technological 
understanding of Being has done to human beings such that 
we might, as a matter of course, accept without question even 
radically dangerous technological advances. Here we are simply 
focusing on the view that we are already in a technological way 
of Being-in-the-world, and therefore, what is at issue is the way of 
being human that has emerged with these developments.
One principle way of being human that has emerged is one that 
Erhard himself has exemplified in his development of his technology 
of transformation: entrepreneurship. The term “entrepreneur” 
stems from the French term entreprendre, to undertake. An 
entrepreneur is an enterpriser. Far from accepting or even tolerating 
the way things already are, the entrepreneur envisions and reveals, 
through originary naming, new possibilities which alter the way 
the world occurs. With language we impact the occurring world 
and consequently, our Being, for our Being is always and already in 
a dance with the occurring world. We bring into Being what could 
never be without being said into Being: we speak Being.
The relationship to modern technology at work in Erhard’s 
technology of transformation does not immediately square with 
Heidegger’s persistent complaint that holds our technological way 
of being as presenting us with profound danger. The diff erence is 
subtle, and will require us to walk a thin line as both thinkers are 
nevertheless treading the same waters. 
For instance, if we envision Heidegger’s understanding of 
our technological way of being as harmonic with the in-order-to 
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 516 ===