=== PAGE 118 ===

104
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
So, “I am ‘they don’t like me’ waiting to happen.” The already always listening I am is “you 
don’t like me, so what was that you were going to say?”
MARSHA
I am already always “you don’t like me.” I’m angry at that.
ERHARD (to the group)
Yeah. And something happened when Marsha was a little girl. And when somebody didn’t like 
her, getting angry worked for that little girl. Now the little girl is running the mature woman
with a lot of relational skills being put to use by a little girl who gets angry because people don’t
like her. There’s a little girl mashed in with a mature and competent woman. And the mashing 
is that the little girl is in charge, calling the shots. And the mature competent woman keeps her
in charge by being afraid she might be angry, and not wanting to be. And see, the people who
can see Marsha now want to make her feel better. I don’t want to make her feel better. I want 
her just like she is, because what she is doing is growing up. She’s getting to the source of what 
she’s afraid she might be. When she’s completed that, she’ll have a freedom to be that she didn’t
have before this conversation. She won’t know better how not to be angry. There’ll be a freedom
that wasn’t there before. She’ll be related to people eff ectively in order to be related to people
eff ectively. That’s fulfi lling. The thing in itself. Anything else?
MARSHA
I suppressed anger starting in the fi fth grade.
ERHARD
What happened?
(to the group)
Listen through the distinctions we developed yesterday. “People don’t like me” never happens.
It’s a story about what happens. “People don’t like me” can’t happen. If you can’t see that, stand 
up?
A participant stood up and takes a microphone.
ERHARD
Lisa, I said, “people don’t like me” never happens.
LISA (smiling)
I get it now.
ERHARD
It never happens, it’s always a story isn’t it? It’s a story about what happened. Larry said you’re
a jerk. He might even have said, “I don’t like you.” That’s what happened, and you told the story 
“people don’t like me.” “People don’t like me” can’t happen, can it?
inescapably be itself a thing” (“NL” in OWL 86). But can a thing
then give being to another thing? If things cannot be without the
prior existence of words, the inevitable conclusion is that “word
and thing are diff erent, even disparate” (“NL” in OWL 86). But what
could be the nature of that diff erence?
Words can be said, but can the word for a word ever be said? A
dictionary is filled with terms, but no words, since “a dictionary can 
neither grasp nor keep the word by which the terms become words
and speak as words.” When we try to think this, Heidegger proposes, 
we seem to arrive at the conclusion that “saying has no being.” But 
then another question presents itself: we say a thing is when a word
is available. But what about the “is” itself? “The ‘is’ cannot be found
anywhere as a thing attached to a thing.” Indeed, “It belongs no more 
among the things that are than does the word” (“NL” in OWL 87).
At this point in our thinking, we may throw in the towel; or, 
says Heidegger, if we will follow him for one more step, we may be
struck by something we had not noticed. While we have reached no
answers in our inquiry—it has raised neither the word nor the “is”
nor the relation between the two to the status of thinghood—it has
pointed us toward something “thought-provoking and memorable.” 
It has suggested the possibility of “what is there and yet ‘is’ not.” 
“
 The word, too, belongs to what is there—per-
haps not merely “too” but first of all, and even
in such a way such that the word, the nature
of the word, conceals within itself that which 
gives [B]eing. If our thinking does justice to 
the matter, then we may never say of the word
that it is, but rather that it gives—not in the 
sense that words are given by an “it,” but that
the word itself gives. (“NL” in OWL 87-88)
Out of the unspoken background, the word gives a context of 
meaning for human action.
Thus we have dug down to the essential simplicity: es gibt (it
t
gives). Heidegger is languaging the Being/being relationship that
is also the heart of his important term, appropriation. As we will 
show later in this book, the nature of appropriation is absolutely 
central to the ultimate rhetorical move of The Forum.


=== END OF PAGE 118 ===