=== PAGE 332 ===

318
SPEAKING BEING
Erhard entered at the side of the room, wearing a brown sweater-vest and gray-brown slacks.
He stood in the back, listening, looking around the room, occasionally greeting and touching a 
participant.
KIPP
That’s a big one. See, when you can’t be with what’s happening, what you’re always left with is 
force, no power.
MARGARET
That’s it.
KIPP
Okay. Thank you very much.
(applause)
Clear on the empty and meaninglessness that life is, or the meaning you’ve given to the empty 
and meaningless. One of those two.
JEB
I woke this morning and realized I am the sum total of my likes and dislikes, that’s all I 
am. I am the sum total of my likes and dislikes, no more than that. 
KIPP
Yes, so, if you take a person’s life, and you put all their opinions in a jar, and you stick them in 
the jar with it, that’s their life. What they like and what they don’t like; what they agree with 
and what they don’t agree with; what they think is good, and what they think is bad; what they 
think is right and what they think is wrong. 
ERHARD
Is it possible to get some insight into how stupid that is? The signifi cance with which we have 
given to what we like and don’t like, with what you agree and don’t agree with, with what you 
want and don’t want? Is it possible to get some insight into how trivial and trivializing that is 
to your life? I told you I would tell you about the spiritual exercise. You have to do the spiritual 
exercise at night, because it has to be dark out, and it has to be clear out so that you can see 
the stars. Here in San Francisco that isn’t always easy, but sometimes. Go down to the beach 
at about two or three in the morning when there’s nobody there, and look up at the sky, at the 
stars. When you get over the awe—and we always do, don’t we?—as soon as you get over the 
awe, what you do is you watch the stars very, very, very carefully. You have to watch them very 
carefully. Watch the stars very carefully while you tell the stars your opinions, what you don’t 
like and what you do like, what you agree with and what you don’t agree with, and particularly 
tell them what you want and what you don’t want. If you’ve watched them very carefully, at the 


=== END OF PAGE 332 ===