=== PAGE 507 ===

Forum Day Four: Session Three 493
slow, baseballs. Guys like you and me who play baseball once at the company picnic, we play 
with very small, supersonic bullets... 
(laughter)
...and our behavior is correlated to uncatchable balls. See you were not a creep when you were 
sweeping up and missed those spots. The fl oor occurred as clean for you. And you stopped 
when it did, like anybody would, like your father would. The fl oor occurred as not clean for 
your father. Therefore, for your father you should have kept sweeping.
MIKE
So I could have caught that ball if I saw it big, and slow, over there?
ERHARD
Let me ask you a question. Forget that you can’t reach it because there are people around you. If 
I threw the ball over there...
(throwing the ball)
...could you catch it?
MIKE
There’s a possibility.
After receiving the ball back from another participant, Erhard threw the ball farther away from 
Mike.
ERHARD
If I threw it there could you catch it?
MIKE
No.
ERHARD
Who said so?
MIKE
I said so.
ERHARD
Because the ball occurs for you as uncatchable.
MIKE
So if it would occur for me as catchable I could catch it.
This revealing gathers together in advance
the aspect and the matter of ship or house, 
with a view to the finished thing envisioned as
completed, and from this gathering determines
the manner of its construction. Thus what is
decisive in techne does not at all lie in making 
and manipulating, nor in the using of means,
but rather in the revealing. . . . It is as reveal-
ing, and not as manufacturing, that techne is a 
bringing-forth. [. . .] Technology is a mode of 
revealing. Technology comes to presence in the
realm where revealing and unconcealment take
place, where aletheia, truth, happens. 
(“QCT” in BW 319) 
“
For Heidegger, what is fundamental in techne, and therefore in 
technology, is not the tools and instruments it manifests, but 
that it is a way of disclosing entities as entities. Here we find 
a harmonic with Erhard’s technology of transformation as the 
process of distinguishing distinctions, the distinguishing of which, 
entirely in language, discloses worlds within which human beings 
have access to acting on and fulfilling new possibilities for Being-
in-the-world beyond what is already and always given for human 
beings to be: the in-order-to—the techne—of our technological age. 
Techne as the in-order-to discloses entities as raw material and 
resources that can then be used up to enhance power and security, 
and a correlative way of Being is brought forth in that disclosure, 
in that manifestation of the tools and instruments techne calls for, 
a technological way of Being that on Heidegger’s view poses great 
danger to us.


=== END OF PAGE 507 ===