=== PAGE 536 ===

522
SPEAKING BEING
your self. Honoring your word as your self. Honoring your word as your self. Okay, speaking 
about one’s word, and all the acknowledgments. 
(pausing)
If I gave everyone in the room who’s awake an opportunity to speak, we would all thank each 
other. The other people who participated in The Forum gave you an enormous gift, one of great 
generosity and magnanimity. You did not pay for The Forum. You did not. The Forum you just 
participated in was a gift from the people who assisted here—to you. Not to you as a personality 
because they didn’t know you personally. It was a gift to the possibility that you are. This thing 
wouldn’t exist without them. There were one hundred and twenty to one hundred and thirty 
people who volunteered their time and their intelligence and their ability and their energy 
and their humanity so that we could do this Forum together. They got here before you or I did, 
and were here after you and I left. You wouldn’t have even gotten enrolled if it weren’t for the 
assistants. And you know the kind of courage it took to enroll you. And the deep profound 
humanity that it took to put up with your shit. So I wanted to give you an opportunity to 
acknowledge the assistants.
(long, loud standing ovation)
Thirty-three staff  members of WE&A from diff erent centers put this together. If you get a 
chance to be around staff  members, I recommend that you take that opportunity. Something 
rubs off . You know, they are ordinary people like you and me. They’re not something 
extraordinary. But what they’ve chosen to do with their lives... what gives you your life—listen 
up—what gives you your life gives you: you. And what they’ve chosen to do with their lives 
gives them something, and you ought to get some of that. And the way to get some of that is 
be around them. One of the things you can do is nurture them and support them. That’d be all 
right. The other thing you could do is assist with them. Hang out and watch them. I’d like to 
give us an opportunity to acknowledge those thirty-three staff  members who created this Forum 
for us.
(long applause) 
Erhard at this point invited participants to go to church with him on New Years’ Eve. 
ERHARD
I’m inviting you to go to church tomorrow night, New Year’s Eve. Some of you need to go to 
church on New Year’s Eve.
(laughter)
It’s an Episcopal church, but there will be a rabbi (a she), a priest, a Zen monk, whatever you’re 
up to you’ll be all right. You know, I spent a lot of time in church because my grandmother 
got me up on Sunday morning and made me go to church every Sunday. After a while I kind 
of liked it a little bit. I served on the alter and swung the incense. I wrote a little bit when I 
went to school, and got an award for something I wrote, and the best thing I wrote was about 
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 536 ===