=== PAGE 310 ===

296
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD (continuing)
(participant sits down)
So if your accomplishments are there as an answer to that there’s something wrong, to make 
up for that there’s something wrong, to deal with that there’s something wrong, then the more 
you accomplish the more powerfully the context—listen!—the more powerfully the context that 
there’s something wrong is established. See look...
(moving to the chalk board.) 
Remember the two circles, “tall” in two contexts? Suppose the context is “there is something 
wrong.” The more content you build, the more achievement, the more accomplishment, the 
more content builds, the more fulfi lled the context becomes. Anybody who can’t see that? 
SUZANNE
I don’t understand.
ERHARD
Okay, thank you. 
SUZANNE
I don’t understand the statement that the more achievement one has, that there’s something 
wrong.
ERHARD
Good. Did you see that she asked the question very precisely? Real big opening to get the 
answer. What I said was that “that there’s something wrong” becomes—you become that 
there’s something wrong; you are that there is something wrong. In other words, “that there is 
something wrong” is the clearing in which life happens now. It’s the opening for life to occur. 
It’s the space in which everything arises. You clear about that statement so far? That’s not the 
answer yet, but are you clear about that so far?
SUZANNE
Is it, “that there’s something wrong,” is it the cause and the achievement is the eff ect? Or...
ERHARD
Not quite, no. Sorry. The answer is no, and it’s like that, but it’s not that. It’s “that there’s 
something wrong” is the context, and the achievement is the content in that context.
SUZANNE
So, the achievement is not an eff ect of “there’s something wrong.” It’s a context.
ERHARD
It is a content of the context “there is something wrong.” See hold on for a second. This business 
about cause and eff ect you and I understand, and are very comfortable with. You don’t have 
to think that, you have those thoughts. You think in a cause/eff ect world. But the world of 
you just now? Because I want to get this story up. There’s a lot of 
people with that story here and I want to get that story killed.” 
This unconcealing clears the way for the appropriation of the 
resistance: participants in the dialogue, by recognizing, allowing, 
and owning their resistance, become who they are, in preparation 
for the disclosure of their possibility.
Lest the view of Dasein as scene-of-violent-unconcealment be 
taken as unduly negative, Heidegger adds an important point:
“
  This [talk of violence] looks like pessimism. But 
it would be preposterous to label Greek Dasein
with this term—not because the Greeks were
somehow optimists at bottom aft er all, but
because these assessments miss Greek Dasein
altogether. The Greeks were, to be sure, more 
pessimistic than a pessimist can ever be. They
were also more optimistic than any optimist. 
Their historical Dasein had not yet entered the 
realm of pessimism and optimism. (IM 197–198)
M
This way of thinking, in which relatedness with Being allows 
the transcendence of subjective value dualities, appears to come 
into play within Heidegger’s and Erhard’s ethics. While the results 
of The Forum, to whatever degree they manifest themselves in 
participants’ lives, are certainly played out in the moral arena, 
morals (and their contemporary variation, “values”) are an ontic 
issue, and the essential content of The Forum is ontological.
Here we think Joseph J. Kockelmans, synthesizing Heidegger, 
expresses Erhard’s view as well: “Every valuing, even if it values 
in a positive manner, is and remains a subjectivizing; it does not 
let beings be. To call God the highest value is to degrade the true 
essence of God” (On the Truth of Being 258). Being is not moral. 
Being “is” not anything except Being. 
The rhetorical conversation of The Forum, rather than taking 
morality as its content, approaches morality indirectly, by way 
of Being. Here, we wish to underline Heidegger’s point: that the 
violence of the act of unconcealing Being is the “flip side” of the 


=== END OF PAGE 310 ===