=== PAGE 223 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Two Interval 
209
and culture—the meanings, the values and standards, the art and the traditions, 
the metaphors—make available a particular way of understanding the world, and 
our lives are lived within the possibilities and limitations of that understanding. In 
our current understanding, made available by the metaphysical tradition, Being has 
been forgotten. In our world, there was no possibility of Being.
Therefore the work of both of these men was directed toward the creation 
of new terminology; and one of the terms that has been central for Erhard, and 
that has served the function of what might best be called “originary naming,” is 
languaging (see the “Primordial Metaphor: Clearing” sidebar in Session Two of Day 
Four). While the word language, as a noun, indicates a formal structure of words and 
rules and the uses toward which they are commonly put within a given linguistic 
community, “languaging” as a verb form indicates an action that is not merely 
putting the words and rules of language to use. Languaging indicates the action of 
generating new meanings, thereby creating new ways of understanding the world. 
The creation of distinctions, which is the central element of The Forum, is a process 
of languaging new contexts or clearings for understanding, which make possible 
new ways of being and acting in the world.
For Heidegger, thinking a way to the presence of Being involved not only the 
creation of a new vocabulary for the human condition, but also a thinking back 
into history to discover how the earliest philosophers in Western culture languaged 
their understanding of the world, and why this understanding devolved into the 
ideas of the metaphysical tradition. Students of Western philosophy generally begin 
their studies with Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle; these philosophers are the most 
familiar to us because in their work we find the beginnings of our own tradition of 
thinking. But there was an earlier group of thinkers in ancient Greece whose ideas 
are in some ways at odds with that tradition, men in whose thinking a possibility 
emerged briefly that was never thought again, and has since been forgotten. It is in 
the writing of these men that Heidegger finds what he is seeking.
David Farrell Krell, in his introduction to Heidegger’s Basic Writings, tells us 
that as a seventeen-year-old student, Heidegger read a German scholar’s thesis 
(Franz Brentano) on Aristotle’s understanding of Being. The experience provoked his 
thinking, and led him to seek out Aristotle’s own Metaphysics, where he found the 
question that would guide him for the rest of his life: “The question that was raised 
in earliest times, that we raise today and that will always be raised and will always 
be a matter of perplexity [is]: ti to on, What is being?” (Aristotle, Metaphysics, VII, 3, 
1028b, 2–4). Here Krell imagines Heidegger’s perplexity:
“
Had some Polonius asked the young man what he was reading 
in his two books on “being,” he might well have answered, 
“words, words, words.” German words from recent times trying 
to translate Latin words from a bygone age that were trying to 
translate Greek words from antiquity. But what were the Greek 
words trying to translate? (Krell, “Introduction,” BW 5, emphasis
W
added)
It was this mystery that ultimately led Heidegger to his etymological explorations of 
the earliest Greek philosophers. It puzzled him that although Aristotle’s writing had 
been foundational in the development of almost every area of human intellectual 
activity, his most profound question, while it had generated two thousand years 
of scholarly disputation on the subject of ontology, seemed now to have lost its 
meaning.
Heidegger’s focus in his quest was the work of those philosophers traditionally 
known as the pre-Socratics—particularly Heraclitus and Parmenides—who lived and 
wrote in the fift h and sixth centuries BCE. As Heidegger saw it, this brief historical 
period was a particularly explosive time in the evolution of human understanding. 
The pre-Socratics were not the first human beings to use language, but in 
Heidegger’s view, they were the first to consider the diff erence it made that they, 
among all beings, were the language-users; and they left  a written record of their 
thinking, of which only fragments remain. 
As the first philosophers of the West, these early thinkers made decisions about 
the meaning of what they saw, and their decisions set Western culture on the path 
which eventually evolved into the metaphysical tradition. “[W]e constantly return to 
the Greek conception of Being,” says Heidegger, “because this conception, though 
entirely flattened out and rendered unrecognizable, is the conception that still rules 
even today in the West—not only in the doctrines of philosophy but in the most 
everyday routines” (IM 64–65).
Therefore, to locate the source of this tradition and to discover how it might 
have been otherwise, Heidegger has turned to the writing of those philosophers. 
Their work survives only in brief fragments, but for Heidegger they provide 
evidence of a crucial moment in the history of the West. They speak of “what since 
ancient times is to-be-thought but is still unthought” (EGT 4). Here Krell, one of the 
translators of Early Greek Thinking, characterizes the fragments:


=== END OF PAGE 223 ===