=== PAGE 460 ===

446
SPEAKING BEING
(grabbing a dictionary from the podium)
The ordinary quarterback walks out on the fi eld and goes “Ready! Hike!” And the defense 
doesn’t do what he thought it was going to do. So the ordinary quarterback goes “Ready! Hike!”
(Throwing the dictionary down on the ground and walks away from it, to laughter and applause, 
and then walks back and snatches up the dictionary)
The extraordinary quarterback goes to the sidelines and talks to the coach about what the defense 
is going to run. The extraordinary quarterback walks out on the fi eld and goes “Ready! Hike!” 
And when the defense doesn’t do what he thought it was going to do, he steps back into the 
pocket and gets the ball down the fi eld. He’s not waiting for life to be any other way than it is. He
chooses whatever’s happening as it’s happening. He can be with life. That’s choice. Choice is be-
ing with whatever is there, whatever life presents you with. The fi rst thing you’ve got to be willing 
to be with is your own racket. It’s taken you three days of hard work to be with the racket you’ve
got. Pretty powerful. I’ve had the privilege of leading The Forum when—at this point—a gentle-
man in a wheelchair came forward and took the microphone and said “Cerebral Palsy: choose!”
Or in a Forum for prisoners, where someone comes up and says “Jackson Prison: choose!” 
Because at that moment they stop serving time and time starts serving them, because they choose
what they’ve got. Are you willing to choose what you’ve got? I didn’t say succumb. I didn’t say 
submit. I said choose. Grant being. Give being like “chocolate: choose!” So far in life you’ve been
trained to—“Chocolate: choose!” “No! What the hell are you giving me this chocolate for?!”
(laughter)r
“Why do I have to be fat? That person’s racket is that they’re lonely. Why can’t I have lonely as a 
racket?”
(laughter)r
What’s going to have you be powerful in life is your choosing moment to moment. Choice isn’t 
selecting options. It’s granting being, giving being and granting being is very much like choos-
ing chocolate when what you’ve got is chocolate. The moment you can be with it, something
opens up. Andy, thank you very much for that work.
(Andy sits to applause
(
)
In a moment we’re going to go on a meal break. During the meal break, I’m asking you to con-
tinue to inquire into this distinction of choice, and to see how much you’re willing to choose. So
far in life you’ve got this little teeny-weeny opening for yourself. You know, if you say that and
they say that; and life acts like that and it doesn’t act like that, “that I’m willing to grant being
to.” See, what the rest of your life is going to be about is, if you take this on, what mastery is 
about, is simply opening up and opening up and opening up and opening up what you’re will-
ing to be with. When you’re only willing to be with a tiny part of life, you’ll only have a tiny life.
Be willing to open up with what you’re willing to open up to, to be with. It’s easy in here, and
when you go out there it isn’t so easy. You’ll be sitting there, choosing, and someone across from
you will be eating with their mouth open and you’ll want to stick a fork in their forehead.
KIPP (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 460 ===