=== PAGE 135 ===

 
 
Forum Day Two: Session Two 
121
a lot minus one. Conceptually they’re diff erent, but conceptually the world is fl at. We’re talking 
about the way the rug occurs for you. Similarly, we’re told that there are cultures, societies, in 
which the number system goes up to seven.
(holding up eight fi ngers)
That would look like many.
(holding up nine fi ngers)
So would that.
(to the group)
You’ve got to get this, you see. This is one of those things you’ve got to get. Now we’re going to talk 
about two... like t-w-o. Pretend you’re in a culture with no numbers at all. You’ve got only none, 
one, and many.
(holding up two sheets of paper)r
If I said that was two, you’d say, “All right.”
(holding up two rulers)
If I said that’s two, you’d say, “okay.”
He continued, holding up two erasers, then two fi ngers, each time responding with increasing cer-
tainty as the imaginary tribesperson—until he held up one ruler
and one eraser.
ERHARD (continuing)
Can you see that you’d say, “I don’t know”? Two diff erent things would not occur for you as
t
“two.” However, after a few examples of diff erent things as two, you would eventually get that.
(holding up two things in one hand and one thing in the other)r
A new level to get, which would again require demonstration by examples. Then another new 
level.
(holding up one fi nger)r
A set and an empty set. You’d never get this as two. No set of examples, however large, ever 
distinguishes two. It only describes or defi nes two. You can’t invent new twos when you’ve just
got a defi nition of two. When you distinguish two, what you do is create a realm of possibility
in which things can occur, arise, as two. You can’t ever invent without a distinction. Defi nitions
limit, distinctions open up. What you are doing when you are distinguishing is creating, open-
ing up a context in which what you are distinguishing can occur, can happen. Is that starting 
to get clear? What you’re doing now is very diff erent. You are distinguishing distinction. That’s a
little bit like putting your hands underneath your feet and lifting yourself up.
PARTICIPANT
How would you distinguish two?
THINKING 
The kind of thinking that Martin Heidegger was distinguishing in
his writing has not been available for human beings. We can’t think
this way because this way of thinking has not yet been thought 
as a possibility, and therefore it is none of the things which 
already-thought ideas always are: understandable, consistent
within themselves, or consistent with our other thoughts. It is not
yet already-available for assertion or evaluation. It must first be
unconcealed.
Heidegger’s first step in bringing forth this unthought think-
ing is to distinguish our current thinking as “our current thinking”
rather than simply as “thinking.” Essential to an inquiry into the 
possibility of thinking, Heidegger says, is an inquiry into what 
thinking is for us now: what we presently think about thinking,
what we presently define as thinking, and—since our thinking
gives us our being—what we are that thinking is (WCT 17). We must
T
begin to think the diff erence between the possibility of thinking
and whatever it is that we are doing now in the name of thinking,
so that the diff erence becomes the opening for the possibility. The 
development of this distinction—a new way of thinking—is central
to Werner Erhard’s work, as it is to Heidegger’s; therefore we will 
mention here several of the ways in which Heidegger characterizes
the thinking he is attempting.


=== END OF PAGE 135 ===