=== PAGE 147 ===

 
 
Forum Day Two: Session Two 
133
ANGEL
Having this as a racket isn’t my fault?
ERHARD
No, the question of fault is... it isn’t somebody else’s fault either. And it’s your responsibility. 
And as I’ve said, nobody knows what I’m talking about when I use the word responsibility, so
we’re not going to talk about that much anymore. Relax until we get back. You’ve been living 
with the pain for however many years it’s been, another... while people take a break... You know, 
peeing is very important to people... Peeing is more important to people than their lives. And
particularly more important than your life. If it was their life they might not have to pee, but 
because it’s your life, they have to pee. So we’ll continue this after the break.
Erhard left the room, and Kipp came onto the platform. He moved to the blackboard and expanded 
what Erhard had written about the structure of a racket:
right
g
dominates
justifi es itself
j
win
wrong   avoids domination        invalidates others      lose
KIPP
The payoff  expresses itself as: it always dominates, wins, or justifi es itself. Till you can get up
here on the board, I promise you nothing. The structure for the payoff , what keeps the payoff  in
place, is what’s up there on the board. The fi rst thing it costs you is your self-expression. Second,
the cost is any happiness in your life. You’re only happy to be right. The next cost is your vitality 
or your health. And the fi nal cost of having your life be lived by your racket is the possibility of 
love, of affi  nity.  You cannot put love, affi  nity, and being right together. If the cost gets bigger
than the payoff , you’ll give it up in a moment. That’s why in a tragedy you’ll be heroic: because 
the cost is right there in your face. Angel has been too generous. She has given you the whole
mechanism. If she couldn’t be right about the pain what would she have to confront in her life?
Erhard joined Kipp on the platform.
ERHARD
Angel, the pain makes the divorces right. You getting a divorce was wrong, and the pain makes 
it right. You’ve got the pain to make yourself right. That’s the payoff . What I’m asking you to see
is that the pain is not there because you got divorced. The pain is there to keep you from being
wrong about having been divorced. It works that way, doesn’t it?
ANGEL
Yes.
ERHARD
Never mind why it’s there. Forget that for the moment. Too hard to see that. If the pain weren’t 
there you’d be very wrong wouldn’t you? You’d be a shallow nobody whose promises didn’t 
ontic structures to correct the problem—empathy and “welfare 
work” are two that Heidegger mentions. But he also points out that 
these ontic solutions can never constitute or adequately replace 
Being-with, since they overlook the fundamental ontological issue:
the deficiencies in the dominant modes of Being-with.
But solicitude has a positive mode as well, which Heidegger 
calls extreme solicitude. This mode has two forms. On the one
hand, Dasein can leap in for the Other:
This kind of solicitude takes over for the Other 
that with which he is to concern himself. The
Other is thus thrown out of his own position. . 
. . In such solicitude the Other can become one
who is dominated and dependent, even if this
domination is a tacit one and remains hidden 
from him. This kind of solicitude, which leaps
in and takes away ‘care,’ is to a large extent
determinative for Being with one another. . . .
(BT 158)
“
In normal circumstances, a Forum participant might expect to 
receive that kind of sympathetic response to her circumstances, 
such as the marital issues being described by this participant. But 
Erhard’s solicitude in The Forum is of the second form:
[This is] a kind of solicitude which does not 
so much leap in for the Other as leap ahead of 
him . . . not in order to take away his ‘care’ but 
rather to give it back to him authentically as 
such for the first time. This kind of solicitude
pertains essentially to authentic care—that is, 
to the existence of the Other, not to a “what”
with which he is concerned; it helps the Other 
to become transparent to himself in his care 
and to become free for it. (BT 158–159)
“
We find in Heidegger’s distinction here of extreme solicitude as
leaping ahead of the Other a profound characterization of the role
r
of a Forum leader. ■


=== END OF PAGE 147 ===