=== PAGE 359 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
345
JACOB
Is that where possibility comes from, being empty?
ERHARD
It may or may not, but, in my answering you in the context in which you are asking me, that 
isn’t going to make any diff erence for you, because you’re asking me in order to understand. 
If you do this exercise... the way we know you did the exercise is because possibility arises. 
Now I didn’t ask that question yet, we’re going to ask that question in a little while because we 
need to get this other thing fl at fi rst. What we want to get fl at is not did you fi gure this out, and 
does it fi t with everything you know. But rather, did you get that life is empty and meaningless 
and it’s empty and meaningless that it’s empty and meaningless? It has no inherent meaning, 
no inherent signifi cance. Life is like a rainstorm. It does not rain in order to water the little 
fl owers. It just fucking rains and life is like that. Life is just like it is. Life is just that way. It’s 
not that way for a reason. It’s just that way. It’s just the way it is, and it’s just devoid of meaning 
and signifi cance, except to the degree that you bring some meaning and signifi cance to it. And 
the meaning and signifi cance that people bring to it does what you saw in here over the last 
three days. So that’s what there is to get. What there is to get is that life is empty and meaning-
less and it’s empty and meaningless that it’s empty and meaningless. That is to say, it’s not only 
empty and meaningless but you can’t make something out of that without getting into trouble. 
Is that clear?
JACOB
Yeah. But...
ERHARD
You’re going to screw it up trying to make up a conclusion out of it.
JACOB
Yeah I am.
ERHARD
Don’t do that. Stop that.
JACOB
Okay.
(applause)
ERHARD
It’s very important what Jacob just illustrated for you. I heard you say it goes in and out and in 
and out and in and out. It goes in and out and in and out because you try to make a conclusion. 
I told you the truth has no use. It’s use-less. Worth-less. What is “worth”? Worth is what makes 
Life is like a rainstorm. It does not rain in order 
to water the little flowers. It just fucking rains 
and life is like that. Life is just like it is. Life is 
just that way. It’s not that way for a reason.
It’s just that way. It’s just the way it is, and it’s 
just devoid of meaning and significance, except 
to the degree that you bring some meaning 
and significance to it. And the meaning and
significance that people bring to it does what 
you saw in here over the last three days.
“


=== END OF PAGE 359 ===