=== PAGE 246 ===

232
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
Yeah, but see, there’s something a little off  in that, because you’re only going to do what you’re 
going to do. People don’t do what they want to do; they do what they do. You always do what 
you do. And you don’t always do what you want to do, do you? The only time you do what you 
wanted to do is when it’s coincidentally what you did. You aren’t doing what you wanted to 
do; you’re doing what you do. And you got this God damned story about wants. People don’t 
do what they want to do; they do what they do, always and only. “Want to” is a story. Like 
explaining illness with evil spirits. Voodoo. The stars will not move for what you want. You do 
what you do, and you don’t do what you don’t do. And all the rest of it is some cockeyed story 
that destroys the simplicity, the power, the sweetness of the way it is. Look, did you ever notice 
you are never ever fucking satisfi ed? Ever! It doesn’t make any diff erence how good it is. It never 
makes a diff erence what you achieve. Ever. Ever! You just can’t get that this is it. Kipp, tell them 
about the practice life. Do your thing about the playing cards. 
KIPP
The playing cards of life...
Kipp held up a pad of paper—as if they were cards—up to his chest.
KIPP
What it is to be a human being is to hold on to your aces. Because you know, that one time in 
life when you gave away everything...
ERHARD
When you were a kid one time, you gave away your aces and you got smashed... Every one of 
you. And from then on, you became “I don’t play my aces.” It wasn’t a decision merely or a 
thought merely, from then on you became “I don’t play my aces.”
KIPP
You became what is known as a smart person. What a smart person looks like is a person who 
walks around holding their aces. Then along came Einstein, and Einstein said the problems that 
we got are not going to be solved with the way that we think we got into those problems... 
ERHARD (interrupting Kipp) 
Hold on, don’t fuck that quote up. 
KIPP
You fuck it up.
(laughter)
ERHARD
The problems we have are not going to be solved at the level in which we created them. What 
does that mean? It’s real simple. You got someplace in life. People have gotten someplace in 
People don’t do what they want to do; they do
what they do. You always do what you do. And 
you don’t always do what you want to do, do 
you? The only time you do what you wanted to 
do is when it’s coincidentally what you did.
“


=== END OF PAGE 246 ===