=== PAGE 328 ===

314
SPEAKING BEING
MARGARET
Well I can see that it doesn’t mean anything and then I woke up this morning and I thought, 
well then I shouldn’t be upset that I didn’t feel good, or that my throat hurts, or that my head 
hurts.
KIPP
This is very good now. This is the giving meaning to no meaning. See “If it doesn’t mean any-
thing, therefore, in order to...”
MARGARET
Or if I really got it, I wouldn’t be sick.
KIPP
Right.
MARGARET
I don’t even know if I’m sick. Truth is, I don’t even know.
KIPP
Right. Well, for sure you’d be some other way than you are.
MARGARET
I’m kind of like backed into a corner. I can’t talk about it, so now I should feel a diff erent way 
than I feel physically. Which is crazy.
KIPP
No it’s not crazy, it’s called normal. This is normal.
MARGARET
I got it.
KIPP
This is what everybody walks around in every day.
MARGARET
And I also see: I’ve designed my entire life to be protected from anyone fi nding out that that’s so 
about me. I’ll produce great, unbelievable results; I’ll create great things around me so that people 
won’t fi nd out. It’s so fucking elaborate! People won’t fi nd out about me that all I’m petrifi ed of is 
that people don’t love me. 
KIPP
You know, I think that we think it’s elaborate. We walk around every day with these signs on 
telling everybody exactly the way it is with us. 
Circumspection
Heidegger also points out that this antecedent understanding 
of the world has a particular quality. The things with which we 
concern ourselves in our everyday world are the things that we 
use in the business of living. Encountered this way, they are the 
material of a phenomenological knowing—a knowing that grows 
l
out of Being (BT 95). This knowing may or may not be explicit in 
T
our awareness:
How do the beings with which we dwell show
themselves to us primarily and for the most
part? Sitting here in the auditorium we do
not in fact apprehend walls—not unless we
are getting bored. Nevertheless, the walls
are already present before we think them as
objects. (BPP 163
P
)
“
Before they are objects for us, the walls are present as a part of 
the equipmental context. In a knowing that arises from Being, I am
not immediately present to the things in my world in the role of 
contemplator, one who seeks to understand and describe them.
Rather I encounter and use them in the business of living:
The nearest things that surround us we call
equipment. There is always already a manifold 
of equipment: equipment for working, for 
traveling, for measuring, and in general things 
with which we have to do. (BPP 163
P
)
“


=== END OF PAGE 328 ===