=== PAGE 170 ===

156
SPEAKING BEING
fi nd out every time you’re on it. And for you, on it is caring. And feeling deeply. I’ve been doing 
this work long enough that I can see behind people’s masks a little bit, and you’re a very beau-
tiful person, but not in the way you think. Not in some airy fairy bullshit sense. But in a really 
gutsy sense. Who knows. I can be full of shit too.
(to the group)
There’s no fi nish to this... There’s no “And then she stopped being that!” She’ll be that act for-
ever. And when she’s being that she’ll have a possibility beyond being that. When she’s running
that act there will be no possibility beyond running that act. You got to own being a fake. You’ve
got to be authentic about being inauthentic. Good for you. There ought to be some lightness in
that for you. 
ANGEL
It’s incredible. I can’t even describe how it feels to be able to say that I faked caring.
ERHARD
Yeah. 
(long, loud applause)
(to the group)
The important part for you is to get how implausible this is, that being able to be that you’re 
a fake gives you power. That’s totally implausible. It’s what you’re afraid to be that keeps you 
from being. And the worst thing in the whole universe, the worst thing for the last twenty 
seven years of Angel’s life would be to be a fake. There couldn’t be anything worse than that. 
The nastiest thing she could be. And avoiding being that cost her her life. That’s implausi-
ble, that doesn’t make any sense, and if I told you that yesterday you wouldn’t have gotten it. 
You could not have gotten what Angel just did with herself, yesterday. You’re now living in a 
diff erent structure of interpretation. You’re dwelling in a diff erent conversation. So you can 
tolerate counter commonsensical phenomena: what doesn’t make sense normally—like being 
able to be “I don’t care” for a person for whom that is the worst thing you could be—would be 
a source of power.
(to Angel)
Anything else?
ANGEL
No, thank you.
ERHARD (to another participant)
Yes?
SOCIAL MOODS
As we pointed out in our discussion of moods in Day One, Heide-
gger says that moods are not individual “psychical” phenomena,
but rather aspects of the way the world is disclosed to Dasein. 
He also says that moods can be public:
Publicness, as the kind of Being which belongs
to the “they,” not only has in general its own
way of having a mood, but needs moods and
‘makes’ them for itself. It is into such a mood 
and out of such a mood that the orator speaks. 
He must understand the possibilities of such
moods in order to rouse them and guide them
aright. (BT 178)
“
In our analysis of The Forum, we are not characterizing Erhard
(or any other Forum leader) as an orator, but as a rhetor, which is
to say simply a person who uses language to some end. Rhetoric 
does not have the same formal implications as oratory, and the di-
alogic ontological rhetoric of The Forum is a significantly diff erent 
mode of communication from the monologic public speaking of an 
orator. 
And yet Erhard, in a debriefing with The Forum leaders during
the 1989 Forum, stated that one of the results he had to achieve in 
leading The Forum was to “produce some eff ects.” We also know 
from our experience that Forum leaders are acutely sensitive to
the mood in The Forum room.
Hubert Dreyfus, in his study of Being and Time, asserts that
in addition to being public, moods can be social, and he quotes
this passage on social moods from a lecture Heidegger delivered 
in 1929:
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 170 ===