=== PAGE 136 ===

122
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
We’ll get to that. Here’s what I want you to get fi rst. Distinguishing establishes a domain of possi-
bility, is making possible, not giving form to, but making form possible; very important to get that 
diff erence. Be in this conversation: distinction or distinguishing is an operation unlike defi ning, ex-
plaining. It does not lead to understanding. You do not understand two when you have distinguished 
two. Distinction is an action which leads to power, because it creates possibility, which is freedom.
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader
(
)r
What is the diff erence between occurring and distinguishing?
ERHARD
Occurring happens in a realm distinguished. There are cultures in which, we are told, if you 
show people a photographic image they don’t see it. These people, by the way, survive an 
environment you would die in, so they’re probably not stupid. There’s no image on the paper 
or in your brain. These cultures have never generated the possibility “photographic image,”
and so they see splotches on the paper. If you explain it to them, they don’t see an image but a 
representation of an image. Where does the image happen? It happens in the distinction “pho-
tographic image.” In that domain of possibility arises “photographic image.”
”
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader
(
)r
I would like you to tease this out for me a bit more. Using the example, when you’re distin-
guishing two with any objects, and then it now occurs as two. So when you give me examples of 
that, the occurrence now is determining how it occurs for me.
ERHARD
No. The defi nition is determining its occurring. 
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader
(
)r
So it’s a concept.
ERHARD
Yeah. And what you get is a conceptually driven occurring. And isn’t that the way you learned 
mathematics? You weren’t creative or generative in mathematics. Mathematicians learn math at
the level of distinctions, not at the level of defi nition. Consequently, they invent numbers. They 
are not limited by arithmetic; they are freed by arithmetic, because arithmetic is constituted
by distinctions not by defi nitions. Arithmetic is not conceptual for them. Art is conceptual for
most people. Artists don’t generate art conceptually. If they do, that’s not art. That’s handicraft, 
not art. You can’t create out of concepts, defi nitions. Dancers don’t dance out of explanations of 
dance. They generate it out of a domain of possibility in which they can invent forms. What’s 
present when a dancer is dancing is an occurring allowed by the possibility, not an occurring
allowed by the conception. You start doing the same thing over and over again when your art is
reduced to a concept. That’s painting by the numbers.
Fundamentally, this thinking is a response to an appeal. The
appeal arises from the wavering in appearance of Being, from its 
tendency in the act of appearing to disappear. “Nature loves to 
hide,” says the common translation of a fragment of Heraclitus,
the pre-Socratic Greek thinker (Wheelwright 70), which Heidegger 
retranslates to emphasize his reading of physis (pronounced foo’-
sis): “Being (emerging appearance) intrinsically inclines toward 
self-concealment” (IM 126). Thus the essential—Being, that which
must be thought—turns away. Being withdraws. And although
Heidegger acknowledges that for contemporary humans this with-
drawal is now almost unnoticed, nevertheless as beings, we are. 
Therefore at some level we are always turned toward that missing 
aspect of our existence:
 What withdraws from us, draws us along by its
very withdrawal, whether or not we become
aware of it immediately, or at all. Once we are
drawn into the withdrawal, we are drawing
toward what draws, attracts us by its with-
drawal. And once we, being so attracted, are 
drawing toward what draws us, our essential
nature already bears the stamp of “drawing
toward.” (WCT 9)
“
This is the exigence in the background of our lives. We are drawn 
toward the ongoing concealment of Being, and in being so drawn 
we find ourselves pointing in its direction: “We are who we are by 
pointing in that direction—not like an incidental adjunct but as . . . 
an essential and therefore constant pointing toward what with-
draws” (WCT 9, emphasis added).
T
The way to draw toward that which withdraws is through
y
thinking, since “Being in general gets interpreted on the basis of 
thinking” (IM 129), but not in the ordinary way we understand
thinking. To think is “to lend a hand to the essence, the coming to 
presence, of Being” (“TT” in QCT 40). When we are thinking we are
T
looking and drawing toward what withdraws: “Whenever man is
properly drawing that way, he is thinking—even though he may 
still be far away from what withdraws, even though the withdrawal 


=== END OF PAGE 136 ===