=== PAGE 128 ===

114
SPEAKING BEING
While Jodie remained standing, another participant, Max, who had the story about Vietnam, stood
to speak.
MAX (visibly shaking)
I’m stuck. I’m afraid I won’t get it. I want to pay my money and have you give it to me. I don’t 
want to have to work at it. I’m really controlled by looking good. I know it controls my life.
I’m living my life for everybody else, not myself. I’m stuck and I don’t know what to do with
that right now. I’m pissed off  at myself when you asked if there was anybody who didn’t get
authenticity...
ERHARD
About being inauthentic.
MAX
I’m stuck on that. I don’t know where to go with it. I don’t understand it.
ERHARD
All right. I got it. You’re in the right place. Relax. I mean, I know you won’t relax, but you’re in 
the right place. I just read your thermometer. You’re all right.
JODIE
I’m really concerned about people liking me, but it’s not me that I’m portraying for them to like
anyway. There’s this big catch 22. I really want you to like me, but it’s not the real me anyway so
if you don’t like me, I already have an out.
ERHARD
Right. It’s very illogical. Very nutty. What’s that thing about lies and webs? “Oh what a tangled
web we weave, when fi rst we practice to deceive.” You have no idea how tangled it is. It starts 
with the fi rst lie, and the fi rst lie is: the story is true. Very powerful contribution. Thanks.
Jodie sat to applause. Wes then replaced Erhard on the platform and directed participants to engage
in a few minutes of “paired sharing—sharing with the person seated next to you what you have 
been seeing in The Forum so far today.”  Following this, he gave the group an assignment for the 
upcoming break.
WES
Have a conversation, like an inquiry, with at least one other person about your racket. I want
you to consider the possibility that you are a candy store with a racket in the back. Rackets have
t
a cost and a payoff . What are yours? Get some insight into your racket—what the payoff  is and
what it costs you. There’s a point to it that gets you something from other people and from life,
and what does that kind of way of being cost you? Get some insight into your racket. That’s the 
opportunity of the break.
The fi rst break of the day began at 12:35 pm.


=== END OF PAGE 128 ===