=== PAGE 94 ===

80
SPEAKING BEING
The Forum resumed at 10:30 pm. Erhard began by inviting questions from the
participants. One participant, reviewing The Forum, shared that his already always 
listening had altered as a result of that experience.  
ERHARD (addressing the group)
He’s got a possibility beyond his thrown listening. He got it by owning his 
thrown listening. There’s something called getting off  it. This is a sacred thing.
To get off  it is sacred. Now, what does getting off  it mean? It means he’s not 
constrained to entertain that listening. He can hear himself listening and get 
off  that listening. When his already always listening comes up, he is able to 
own it, to embrace it, to be responsible for it. In the normal course of events,
if I found out my already always listening was disempowering I would try to
stop it. He didn’t change it. That’s the big secret. Because when you change it, 
nothing changes.
(shifting tone)
This is a “you-gotta-get-this.” So listen up. 
At the chalkboard, Erhard placed the chalk on the surface and moved it, so that 
the chalk ended in a diff erent place but a line remained indicating the path of its 
movement.
ERHARD (continuing)
Change persists. When you’re diff erent, what persists? That which you’re dif-
ferent than. So when you’re diff erent you’re the same, because the thing from 
which you’re diff erent is still there. The more diff erence, the more persistence. 
If you’re really diff erent, the thing you’re diff erent than has a big persistence. 
If I’m a nice guy as a solution to a problem, the problem for which being a nice
guy is a solution stays in place. About ninety-nine percent of what you are,
you became as a solution to a problem. Education is a solution to being stupid. 
When you solve a problem, what persists is the problem.
(to the participant)
So your listening that altered hadn’t solved the problem of your already always 
listening.
(to the group)
He had embraced it. He was able to be with the problem.
(drawing two tangent circles on the board) 
Can you imagine putting two solid objects in the same place at the same time?
If you did that, what would happen? They would disappear. Push them into 
FORUM DAY ONE: SESSION FIVE
the same space—the space between them—and they will disappear. Anything 
you can let be will let you be. There are no accidents of being. You’ve got to be 
there for it, open for it, available for it.
DAVID
I wanted to recognize that I haven’t really been listening. 
ERHARD
Recognition is the beginning. When you recognize your own already always 
listening, you’re on the fi eld. The game’s not over, but you’re on the fi eld.
DAVID
What do I do with my realization?
ERHARD
Nothing. It’ll do something with you. It’ll give you something you didn’t have 
before. Most of you ought to be able to map what David said onto your own 
listening.
Here Erhard called Kipp to the platform to conduct the next exercise; Erhard 
remained nearby, interrupting occasionally to reinforce a point. 
KIPP (to the group) 
Your job is to sit in your chair, and when I say “now,” describe to yourself 
whatever’s happening right now. 
(pausing)
Now.
(a minute of silence)
Okay, plenty of data. Let’s have a few people report what they are experiencing
now.
PARTICIPANT
I’m bored and I don’t want to be here.
PARTICIPANT
I’m analyzing a lot.
ERHARD
It’s not you analyzing, it’s it analyzing, because you can’t stop it.
t
PARTICIPANT
What am I supposed to do now?


=== END OF PAGE 94 ===