=== PAGE 422 ===

408
SPEAKING BEING
But when marriage is a solution to a problem, it becomes the next problem. This is the way it is 
for most people: For most people a relationship is a solution to a problem. What do you think
that does to the relationship? It turns it into a thing, with a group of expectations. It becomes
part of your racket. That’s not relating. You turn someone else into a solution to your problem.
That’s what you’re relating with and that’s not relating. That’s making it a problem. How many 
people found it diffi  cult at some point in The Forum, for them?
(a large number of people raising their hands)
You know how some people solved that problem? There are people for whom that’s a real prob-
lem. When they experience something, that’s a real problem; they don’t like something, it’s a real 
problem. You know how they solve that? Some people? They leave. That’s their solution to the
problem. Not a lot of people; a couple people. You think that ends up as a problem for them? What 
about the relationships that you’ve left? Look at a relationship. And it was a problem and the way 
you dealt with it is you left it. You will drag that crummy relationship around with you forever. 
That’s this whole thing about being incomplete with your parents: That’s at the source of it. 
TIM
Okay I understand it in the examples you used and it makes real sense that solutions become
problems.
WES
Well, it’s part of the quote that Kipp butchered. Where is Kipp? I’ll read it to you exactly: “The
world that we have made as a result of the level of thinking we have done thus far creates prob-
lems that we cannot solve at the same level we created them at.” Because if we solve them at the 
same level we created them at, we are in worse shape.
TIM
Well that still doesn’t address the issue though of needing to be solved.
WES
No, no, no, no, you’re trying to go too fast. You’re trying to solve the problem called “solving 
doesn’t work.”
TIM
Yeah, that you solve it at a diff erent level. That’s the invitation of Einstein anyway: to solve it at 
a diff erent level.
WES
We’re going to give you a diff erent level. And it won’t be the level... the level that you deal with 
problems, what you call solutions...
TIM
The “shouldn’t be...”
WES (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 422 ===