=== PAGE 72 ===

58
SPEAKING BEING
Dasein: Meaning and Mineness
Dasein is Martin Heidegger’s name for the central figure in his 1927 magnum opus, 
Being and Time. The term is one of the few in Heidegger’s writing that consistently 
remains untranslated from the German: the most literal translation of Da-Sein is be-
ing-there. Scholar Hubert Dreyfus suggests that the best way to understand Dasein 
is to think of “our term ‘human being,’ which can refer to a way of being that is char-
acteristic of all people or to a specific person—a human being” (Hubert L. Dreyfus, 
Being-in-the-World 14). 
But the term being-there itself indicates the essential characteristic that distin-
guishes humans from other beings. Dasein is being-there because it is the only being 
for whom its Being is an issue. Humans are the beings who reflect upon themselves, 
and the only ones who exist in a world of meaning. We dwell in a meaningful “there,” 
and we bring our “there” along with us when we show up. Other beings inhabit the 
earth; human beings live in a world. 
This is a challenging and essential aspect of the thinking Heidegger is devel-
oping here, and a distinction that emerges persistently over the four days of The 
Forum. The meanings of the things in our world are not properties of the things 
themselves. Non-human beings are “entities whose kind of Being is of a charac-
ter other than Dasein’s,” and therefore they must be understood as “unmeaning, 
essentially devoid of any meaning at all” (BT 193). When Heidegger says that “only 
Dasein can be meaningful or meaningless,” he is saying that other beings can have or 
lack meaning only when they are encountered by Dasein and are thereby disclosed as 
meaningful or not (BT 192–193). Consider: a dog may not be “a dog” for another dog, 
nor may the dog see “beauty” in a sunset. Dasein is the only being in whose world 
there is meaning. Only for human beings do things show up as the things they are.
Further, Dasein is the only being for whom existence is always an issue, and the 
issue for each Dasein is always fundamentally its own existence. Heidegger calls this 
human characteristic mineness: the Being of human beings, while it characterizes 
the ontological nature of the collective, always occurs as the Being of a particular 
human being. Therefore, while Dasein is not a person, we have to talk about it as if 
it were: “Because Dasein has in each case mineness, one must always use a personal 
pronoun when one addresses it: ‘I am,’ ‘you are’” (BT 68). 
Each Dasein relates to this existential situation in a particular way. “Mineness 
belongs to any existent Dasein, and belongs to it as the condition which makes 
authenticity and inauthenticity possible” (BT 78, emphasis added). That is, my 
SESSION TWO INTERVAL
Dasein is always mine, but whether or not that relationship is authentic—as Werner 
Erhard would put it, whether I own the condition of mineness, or whether it owns 
me—depends upon an act of existential choice. The purpose of The Forum is to 
bring participants face-to-face with that choice, thereby making available the possi-
bility of authentic existence. 


=== END OF PAGE 72 ===