=== PAGE 309 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Four 
295
for being complete. Everything is for making up for that there’s something wrong here. What 
gives you your life—more accurately, sorry, more accurately—what gives you your self, what 
gives you your identity, the person you’ve built yourself into being, was built in response to
(speaking each syllable with equally intense emphasis)
that there is some-thing pro-found-ly wrong. Now if you need evidence, what you’ve got to use 
for evidence is “what is it that’s left you full of joy?” What is it? Look, there are eight hundred 
people in here in this room. There’s got to be some pretty remarkable accomplishments in this 
room. People of remarkable accomplishment; there’s got to be people in here who have made 
ridiculous contributions. There’s got to be people in here who have saved people’s lives, there’s 
got to be people in here who have nurtured people’s lives, there’s got to be people in here who 
have impacted whole communities, there may be people here who have made important, 
signifi cant contributions to countries, and there’s not one person in here satisfi ed. Not one 
person in here truly, completely, wholly fulfi lled. Not one person in here full of joy. That’s my 
evidence. 
(calling on a participant)
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 8)
I’ve done some looking at this and I have a question and we can use me as a case in point. 
When I was in the third or fourth grade, a few things happened close together, where I got 
really embarrassed, and I decided that no one was going to embarrass me that way again. No 
one is ever going to laugh at me again. Out of that I became a master student, head of the class, 
straight A’s all the way through college. Awards, degrees, all sorts of honors and no satisfaction. 
My fi rst wife made a fool of me and so in my second marriage I married someone that would 
never leave me. It’s all a solution to “no one is ever going to make a fool of me again.” 
ERHARD
Right.
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 8)
So all the things you’re saying I can really see in my life, where what could really be 
accomplishments are I’m making a point and I’m making sure there’s no satisfaction.
ERHARD
Right because there’s no satisfaction in compensating for being “there’s something profoundly 
wrong here.” All you do is what? Reinforce down there at the bottom that there’s something 
wrong here. 
(asking a participant to stand up; Erhard pushes against his shoulders)
It’s kind of like this: whatever you’re pushing up against, you’re attached to. I’m attached to 
him, just as surely if he held me close to him. In fact I’m more attached to him than if he held 
me close to him because he doesn’t have to do any of the work; I do all the work. 
“
the uncanniest possibility of Dasein shows 
itself: to break the excessive violence of 
Being through Dasein’s ultimate act of vio-
lence against itself. Dasein does not have this 
possibility as an empty way out, but it is this
s
possibility insofar as it is; for as Dasein, it must 
indeed shatter against Being in every act of 
violence. (IM 197)
M
As we show in our series of sidebars on Technology (during the 
third and final session of Day Four), The Forum provides an 
opportunity for Dasein’s calculative machinations to be seen for 
what they are, and the game is up. Yet only through this struggle 
can Dasein become itself, and serve its constitutive role as the 
site for the disclosure of Being: the struggle is “an act of violence 
against the overwhelming, but at the same time always and only 
for it” (IM 196).
Heidegger has at times described this ongoing struggle in 
oppressive terminology:
“
the renewed resurgence of the act of violence 
against Being, in such a way that the almighty 
sway of Being violates Dasein (in the literal 
sense), makes Dasein into the site of its appear-
ing, envelops and pervades Dasein in its sway, 
and thereby holds it within Being. (IM 198)
M
In his later work, it must be noted, Heidegger’s languaging of 
unconcealment is less violent: it is articulated more gently as a 
turning-toward Being, a releasement of and into Being. However, 
we emphasize the element of resistance here (as has Heidegger) 
because such resistance characterizes much of the dialogue 
in The Forum (as well as many discussions of Erhard himself). 
Erhard does not attempt to minimize this resistance; in fact, he 
acts strategically to unconceal it. For instance, early on Day One of 
The Forum, aft er confronting the participant Bill concerning being 
pressured to be in The Forum, Erhard asked, “Why was I bad with 


=== END OF PAGE 309 ===