=== PAGE 242 ===

228
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD 
All right. And proud of it. 
ANGEL
And sometimes I’m not.
ERHARD
Where is the chip queen? I’m going to get you two together. You can have a meeting. That 
would be great. Talk about movies. That’s real entertainment: the drama queen and the chip 
queen together. Angel, do you understand that I’m not trying to make you not be the way you 
are? I’m simply trying to shed some light where you stand. I don’t want you to not be the way 
you are. I know you’re a drama queen. You’re always going to be into the drama. And I didn’t 
say that’s bad. But you want to make everything mean something. You screw yourself over every 
time because you make it mean something.
ANGEL
Isn’t it human to make everything mean something? 
ERHARD
That’s what I said. We were going to reveal the already always nature of being for human beings.
ANGEL
So what I got was that I am a human being and I can’t get away from being a human being. And 
I spent a lot of time and eff ort trying not to be a human being.
ERHARD
Very good, but now you’ve turned that into a sacred cow. You’ve turned being a human being 
into a sacred cow. “Now the son of a bitch wants to take away my new sacred cow from me.”
ANGEL
And my new sacred cow is being a human being.
ERHARD
Yeah, you turned that into some kind of a story. Instead of just being a human being you turned 
that into a soap opera, a drama. Life doesn’t mean anything, sweatheart. It doesn’t mean a thing.
ANGEL
You don’t know how upset that makes me. 
ERHARD
I understand that it makes you upset. I told you, this is my second Forum. I told you when I 
found that out I was real upset. 
ANGEL
But then what did you do with it? 
Heidegger develops this distinction further:
Heraclitus wants to say: human beings do hear,
and they hear words, but in this hearing they
cannot “hearken” to, that is, follow, what is
not audible like words, what is not talk but 
logos. . . . But genuine hearkening has nothing 
to do with the ear and the glib tongue, but 
instead means obediently following what logos 
is: the gatheredness of beings themselves. 
(IM 142–143)
“
Logos, Being, the Together in beings, is the unspoken background 
that emerges to be glimpsed in the dialogue of The Forum. 
If we are listening for the logos, we may hear the gathering in 
Heidegger’s words of one of his most important and provocative 
hints: his persistent play at the fuzzy boundary between Being 
and beings. By teasing out, over a fift y-year career, the question 
of agency in the Being–being relation, Heidegger provided human 
thinking with an essentially reflexive quandary, one whose 
thinking through may catapult us into a leap and land us with a 
more liberated understanding of the world. 
Heidegger’s early take on this question, in Being and Time,
was that Dasein achieves an authentic existence through the 
achievement of resoluteness, and the existential choices thereby 
made available. One of those choices is to stop fleeing one’s reality 
and let it be, recognizing that its meanings are made up and 
malleable: “When Dasein is resolute, it takes over authentically 
in its existence the fact that it is the null basis of its own nullity” 
(BT 354). In The Forum, this authentic taking-over of existence 
is made possible by the distinction of nullity (life is empty and 
meaningless), and of oneself as the null basis of that nullity (it’s 
empty and meaningless that it’s empty and meaningless). 
In his later rubrics, releasement and appropriation, Heidegger 
moved toward the more receptive side of the Being–being balance, 
bringing letting and allowing forward as moments in the attainment 
of authenticity. But the clearing opened through all of these 
articulations is the Same, emerging in the unspoken reverberations 
as the distinction is teased out. “Hints,” said Heidegger, “need the 
widest sphere in which to swing” (“DL” in OWL 27). ■


=== END OF PAGE 242 ===