=== PAGE 335 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
321
(to Kipp)
Did you ever get to reasonableness?
KIPP
No.
ERHARD
Were you planning on doing that today?
KIPP
Exactly.
ERHARD
Great. Raphaela?
RAPHAELA
When I was thinking of standing up, I was wanting to participate in-order-to. And life is 
meaningless to me is really... I’m stuck. I want this coaching, I want to accept that, but if it’s 
meaningless to me then what does that mean? I keep going in that circle. 
ERHARD
Yeah, what does it mean that it’s meaningless and empty?
RAPHEAELA
Exactly. But for me to say that, I don’t... I’m still not accepting it. So, so what?
KIPP
You’ve made not accepting it mean something also. You know, like you should accept it.
RAPHAELA
Well, I follow what you’re saying...
KIPP
You mean you can see that accepting and not accepting are both meaningless. They both mean 
the same thing. One means accepting and the other means not accepting. 
RAPHAELA
Yeah. But at the same time I feel my racket coming up saying “I can’t accept that.” 
ERHARD
What’s your racket?
world. “This is it” says Erhard. “You wanted to know how it was
going to turn out. Well this is it. This is how it turned out” (“Heart 
of the Matter”). Inevitably, Being-in-the-world “enters into the 
existential ‘mode’ of the ‘not-at-home’” (BT 233). This sense of not-
at-homeness is what is referred to as the uncanny. 
Over the last several months, as the senior author has
become more open in his thinking, as well as in conversation, 
to his own death as something impending, he has begun 
to experience this uncanniness. And while letting go to this 
confrontation has certainly included a quality of danger—the
discomfort of being on the edge, of jumping off the high diving 
board, of being ungrounded—there has also been an experience 
of great liberation regarding the tendency to flee given by the
“rainstorm” of the “they” self, which “does not permit us the 
courage for anxiety in the face of death” (BT 298). Heidegger 
T
continues:
As falling, everyday Being-towards-death is
a constant fleeing in the face of death. Being-
towards-the-end has the mode of evasion
in the face of it—giving new explanations
for it, understanding it inauthentically, and 
concealing it. Factically one’s own Dasein is 
always dying already; that is to say, it is in a 
Being-towards-its-end. And it hides this Fact 
from itself by recoining “death” as just a “case 
of death” in Others—an everyday occurrence
which, if need be, gives us the assurance still 
more plainly that ‘oneself’ is still ‘living.’  
(BT 298
T
)
“
One might read in Heidegger’s words a degree of disparagement
toward the everyday way of Being-in-the-world endemic to the 
“they” self. Perhaps Heidegger is attempting to lay bare everyday-
ness such that his readers might hear the call of conscience that 
itself brings us to face a profound lack present in the tranquil life 
dictated by the “they”:


=== END OF PAGE 335 ===