=== PAGE 396 ===

382
SPEAKING BEING
SANFORD
Yeah. The question was reasons for not participating. I have a lot of reasons for not participating
in the assisting program.
KIPP
Everybody know he’s referring to the people who have been running microphones and man-
aging this entire program? Those are assistants in a program. You’ll have an opportunity to
acknowledge them later. Thank you. Go ahead.
SANFORD
So, I’m not sure there’s a lot of value going into what those reasons are, but the cost of having 
those reasons instead of assisting is that, number one, I don’t have available to me whatever
would be there for me out of assisting and I’m ripping everybody else off  from what I could 
contribute by doing that.
KIPP
Yeah. What you’ve got is your reasons.
SANFORD
Yeah. And if I continue to indulge myself in that, at the end of my life that’s what I’ll have is all
the reasons for what I did and what I didn’t do instead of powerful results.
KIPP
And that’s what most people got.
SANFORD
Yeah. Probably what everybody’s got; possibly what everybody’s got.
KIPP
Yeah, well, you talk to a lot of people and pretty much this is what people tell you about their 
life: “I would have, if...”
f
SANFORD
Yeah, that’s my story for sure.
KIPP
Sanford, thank you. Anabeth?
(applause)
ANABETH
The reasons for not participating go back a long way. So I can see that now. Earlier when Werner
was talking about when we were six or fi ve or four, whenever that happened, and my reaction
Fallenness
Nevertheless, stories have power. The meaningfulness of these 
interpretations has provided the practical understanding by which
we have coped with the circumstances in our lives. As Erhard puts 
it in Session Three of Day Four, our actions are always in a dance 
with the way the world occurs. But while we remain immersed in
the oblivion of Aletheia 3, the dance is inauthentic. We do not own 
the reality we are living because we have not chosen it; nor have 
we chosen not to choose it. We have merely fallen into the drift 
t
of the dance that has been thrown-open for us; and rather than 
confront the situation, we flee into the tranquillizing distractions
of the “they.” 
The inevitable forgetfulness of the “they” self—the forget-
ting of Being that follows the unconcealment of one’s story as a 
story—is what Heidegger termed “fallenness.” Thomas Sheehan 
in Making Sense of Heidegger writes that fallenness is a kind of 
r
forgetting that results from focusing on what is meaningful to 
us: “the more I focus on the meaningful, the more I forget that I 
am the thrown-open clearing that makes meaning possible and 
necessary” (116): we forget Aletheia 1 and Aletheia 2 and devolve
to the order of truth given by fallenness, that is, by Aletheia 3. 
The conversation of The Forum is designed to bring the partici-
pants to Nothing, the thrown-open clearing of Aletheia 1, which is
possible only through undergoing the experience of the dialogue 
for oneself as it moves backwards from truth as Aletheia 3 to 
Aletheia 2, which already brings to presence Aletheia 1. Again and 
again and again.
For instance, during his conversation with Jodie during Ses-
sion Two of Day Two, Erhard brought Jodie and all the participants 
to think and
k
experience for themselves these three levels. To Jodie’s 
recognition of her story as a story—that boys did not like her when 
she was a little girl—Erhard said, “a story is just a story”—a point of 
view of Aletheia 3 only granted us when “standing in” or “coming
from” Aletheia 2. When Erhard continues to say that “The ‘what 
happened’ is what’s true or not. It did or it didn’t,” he is speaking 
from the point of view of the thrown-open clearing given by Ale-
theia 1 as it regards Aletheia 2 and Aletheia 3. Erhard continued: 


=== END OF PAGE 396 ===