=== PAGE 440 ===

426
SPEAKING BEING
patricide and all the cides—meaning to kill. Decide means to kill or murder the alternative. So
when you decide something you are destroying the alternative. “I’ve decided to do that!” That’s
a decision—based on something. “I’m deciding this because...” It’s always based on something.
What gives a decision is it’s based on something. Choice is not based on something. It’s based
on no thing or nothing. Choice is to select freely and after consideration, not limited by what-
ever the evidence that you have to give for a decision. The fi rst thing we need to do is to get
a decision to be a decision and a choice to be a choice so that they can live distinctly for you.
When you say choose, what you mean for the most part is decide. What you’re actually saying
is decide. We’re going to do a little demonstration with someone to distinguish a choice from a 
decision, so you can see it clearly for yourself, so you can see a choice in action.
Kipp asked for a volunteer who has not taken The Forum before, nor seen the demonstration. The 
participant chosen was Bill, the young man who had interacted so combatively with Erhard during 
Session One of Day One of The Forum.
KIPP (continuing)
Are you willing to do this demonstration, to stay with it all the way through, keep participating, 
even if it looks like it might be frustrating for you and you might not get it, and go right to the 
end and keep on playing?
BILL (smiling)
Couldn’t look any worse than I did on the fi rst day. So yeah, I’m willing.
KIPP
That’s true.
(laughter: to the group)
Okay, so. All right. Now, your job is not to coach Bill. A lot of the time when you are sitting in 
your chair and you don’t have whatever it is that you have when you’re standing there attempt-
ing to get it sorted out for yourself, where it’s sometimes a little more diffi  cult to see, so don’t
say it out loud, or coach him in some way. Let him struggle with it because it’s the inquiry into 
the distinction, the struggle that will bring forth the distinction. We’re not defi ning a distinc-
tion; we’re not explaining a distinction. We’re not describing choice. We want to see choice as a 
distinction in action. So Bill, I’m going to ask you to make a simple choice, and each time I ask
you to make a choice, you’ll say to me, “I choose...” whatever you chose, “because...” And you’ll 
fi ll in whatever comes after that for you, okay? You clear how to respond? Okay ready?
BILL
Yeah.
Kipp held out two hands as if he had an ice cream cone in each one.
KIPP (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 440 ===