=== PAGE 308 ===

294
SPEAKING BEING
JANE
No, I don’t.
ERHARD
Okay, thank you. You can sit down now if you want.
(applause as Jane sits)
ERHARD
You became that there’s something wrong. The question is: What did you do about it? The 
answer is that from there on out, everything you did, everything you are, most particularly what 
you’re really good at, was a response to, a way of dealing with, that there’s something wrong! 
Your best moments, what you’re best at, what you’re most confi dent at, the best things in your 
life... You got married—listen up!—you got married because there’s something wrong. It was 
a way to deal with that there’s something wrong. No shit. I didn’t say your marriage wasn’t 
wonderful. Your marriage may be the greatest thing that ever happened, but you got married 
because there’s something wrong.  You had kids because there’s something wrong. You chose 
your profession because there’s something wrong. You live your life because there’s something 
wrong. And you developed the answers—that you got to what to do about the fact that there’s 
something wrong—to a very high level. You’re really good at a lot of things, aren’t you? Really! 
There are things you are really good at. The things you’re really good at—listen up. I know you 
don’t get it yet—the things you’re really good at started out, had their genesis, are at the source a 
way of dealing with that there’s something wrong. Here’s the evidence for my assertion: nothing 
satisfi es you. Nothing satisfi es you. The things that you’re good at don’t satisfy, don’t nurture 
you, don’t fulfi ll you, don’t leave you full of joy. They gratify you, because they make up for the 
fact that something’s wrong. But they don’t fulfi ll you, don’t leave you full of joy, don’t leave you 
fulfi lled. They don’t leave you complete. Did you ever notice, you’re never complete? Never. No 
matter what you accomplish. No matter what you build, no matter what you create, no matter 
what pleasure or accomplishment or satisfaction there is in your life, it’s never enough. 
(Erhard moves around the room, speaking very loudly and forcefully) 
And it’s never enough because you’re never going to be anything enough. You see, this is the 
other side of the coin. We were talking about the bad stuff  before. I’m talking about the good 
stuff . I’m talking about the good stuff  in your life: you know, your marriage, your romance, 
your love aff air, the job that you’re very good at, that you’ve really developed your real skills in. 
The stuff  in life that people can really count on you for. Your contributions to other people, the 
diff erence you’ve made in life: that’s also only in the service of making up for the fact that you 
are that there’s something wrong. The evidence for that assertion is that even the things that 
you’re the best at, even the things that are the fi nest part of you, like your contributions to other 
people, like the diff erence you’ve made for other people, like the sacrifi ces you’ve made for the 
benefi t of other people—you know, you raised children all your life and you’ve done a great job 
at it, and it’s still fucking not enough. You know you gave, gave, gave, and after a while you stop 
giving, because it’s not enough to make up for “there’s something wrong here.” Yeah. Nothing. 
Nothing. Nothing’s good enough for you, because nothing is for being good enough. Nothing is 
Clearly, in a thinking that requires our familiar way of 
thinking to be put under the possibility of deconstruction or 
erasure, one is inherently at risk. This point was made repeatedly 
by Heidegger, and is central to the rhetorical strategy of Werner 
Erhard. The identity, the subject, the cogito, which is presently 
dominating the clearing and thus confounding the appearing of 
Being, does not want to be displaced. In clearing our “there,” in 
unconcealing the clearing, we render our subjectivity homeless: 
this is essential, since in our being “put out of the home in this 
way, the home first discloses itself as such.” Thus the event of 
unconcealment is also “the happening through which human 
beings become homeless” (IM 186). Always on the way, we have 
no home. No wonder we resist.
In Being and Time, in a passage which Erhard has quoted, 
Heidegger states that any attempt to analyze Being “constantly 
has the character of doing violence, whether to the claims of the 
everyday interpretation, or to its complacency and its tranquilized 
obviousness” (BT 359; quoted in “Heart of the Matter”). Heidegger 
has further expressed this violent characteristic by describing the 
opening for Being, not as a sylvan and tranquil clearing, but as the 
turbulent battleground of a breach: “Historical humanity’s Being-
here means: Being-posited as the breach into which the excessive 
violence of Being breaks in its appearing, so that this breach itself 
shatters against Being” (IM 181). The sense of “historical” here 
is not that of mere facts and trivia; rather, it has to do with the 
making of history that occurs in moments when the way in which a 
human being understands itself transforms, leaps from identifying 
with what Erhard has termed the “story” to Being-in-the-world as 
a new possibility for Being. Any transformation threatens what is 
already there—held in place as it is by the “they” self who seeks to 
reduce, or level down, Being to accommodate the averageness of 
the everyday.
Thus, this fundamentally threatening nature of 
unconcealment produces in Dasein what Heidegger calls the “will 
to conquer that at the same time shrinks back” (IM 196). The task 
at hand is forbidding: to be on the way, Dasein must engage in a 
violent struggle to wrest Being from unconcealment, and in the 
struggle must risk itself essentially. “Here,” writes Heidegger,


=== END OF PAGE 308 ===