=== PAGE 547 ===

 
 
 
Aft erword 
533
Gradually, I concluded that the same was true for making sense of Being and 
Time.1 (And later I found undergoing a transformative experience was also required
to truly understand Erhard’s est Training program and later The Forum program.) To
t
understand the book meant doing more than writing intelligible sentences about its 
oft en diff icult and controversial ideas. I needed to undergo the anxiety (Angst
(
) that
discloses human existence as neither a body nor even a mind, but instead as the
temporal clearing or openness in which things can manifest themselves and in that 
sense can “be.” Surrendering to the mood of anxiety, however, is akin to a death
experience, from which we ordinarily flee. Heidegger’s concept of authentic human 
existence, at least so I argued in Eclipse of the Self, amounts to the following.2 One
must own up to the fact that one has been thrown into the world as the mortal, tem-
poral openness required for entities to reveal themselves in various ways. Anxiety 
invites us to suspend momentarily our absorption into the average, everyday way of 
existing (for Erhard, this includes what he would call “running one’s racket”), so that 
otherwise hidden possibilities—specific to our own capacities and situations—can
reveal themselves. Heidegger insisted, however, as does Erhard, that taking a stand 
upon one’s own finite possibilities is not only unusual, but also diff icult to sustain. 
We tend to fall back again and again into the tranquillizing mode of everyday life, in
which there is supposedly nothing really new or important to be discovered.
One day in the early 1970s, while a grad student at Tulane, I had a full-blown
anxiety moment that began as I was walking through the University Center. All 
of a sudden, the people, furniture, floor and ceiling began pulling away from me. 
Everyone and everything became utterly meaningless, insignificant, and pointless.
My projects, self-understanding, goals and objectives—these, too, fell away, leaving
only bare, unmotivated, directionless awareness. The world had become empty and
meaningless. Aft er a while, things started to regain their significance, such that I was 
able to find my way around once again. This experience confirmed for me much of 
what Heidegger had said about anxiety in Being and Time and elsewhere.
The occasion for another important insight occurred in early January 1978 on a
dark and stormy night. At the time, I was suff ering from the flu, which seemed like a
symptom of my unhappy personal situation. Feeling miserable while holed up in my
tiny apartment, I heard a knock at the door. A friend whom I rarely saw stood there, 
shielding himself from the rain. Presenting me with a book, he said:  “Here, Michael.
I think you should read this.” With that, he departed, leaving me with a copy of Baba
Ram Dass’s book, Be Here Now.3 Formerly Richard Alpert, a psychology professor at 
Harvard, Ram Dass (along with colleague Timothy Leary) had been dismissed from
the university for turning students onto LSD. Traveling to India, where he found his 
guru, Ram Dass discovered that various meditative and yogic practices could gener-
ate the non-attachment and non-duality associated with enlightenment—without 
using drugs. Be Here Now was so influential because Ram Dass brilliantly explained
major aspects of Indian teachings in ways that could resonate with Western readers.
Years earlier, I had seen Be Here Now at a bookstore, but I had dismissed it as
w
pop psychology masquerading as Eastern religion. I had little patience for either,
especially Asian thought to which my way was barred by a regrettable ethnocen-
trism. That this very book would appear unbidden in the midst of a personal crisis 
persuaded me to read it that very night. In the wee hours I experienced something 
like kensho, the Zen term for an initial awakening.4 I realized with unprecedented 
conviction that my life was misguided, even though by the standards of most peo-
ple, including academics, my life was successful. Gripped by fear, I had long tried to
protect myself in ways that provoked unnecessary suff ering in myself and in others.
Attempting to satisfy various cravings, I had sometimes acted in ways that did not 
make me feel proud. Suddenly, Søren Kierkegaard’s dictum, “The specific quality 
of despair is not knowing that one is desperate,” struck me like a thunderbolt. That 
night, I resolved to become a Zen monk, thereby supposing that doing so would 
somehow bring me happiness.
First, of course, I needed to learn how to meditate.  Asian traditions oft en speak 
of the tyranny of the “monkey mind,” the relentless interior chatter that jumps from
one topic to the next. My everyday experience was filled by neurotic chatter. All the 
time I was thinking that it was I who was thinking, even though perhaps it would
be better to say that the thoughts were having me!  Aft er many years of meditation
practice, I finally learned how to silence the interior voice upon command. In the
summer of 1979, I spent five weeks as a guest student at Green Gulch Farm (near 
Muir Woods outside of San Francisco) and at Tassajara Zen Mountain Retreat Center,
both of which were run by the San Francisco Zen Center. Arising at 4 am to meditate 
every day (except Sundays, when we could sleep in until 6!) was challenging, in part
by the emotional torment provoked by being apart from my girlfriend, whom I even-
tually married. Clearly, I had a lot of work ahead of me.
In February 1980, I took part in a seven-day sesshin at the London Zen Center.
This was very serious business. Run by a well-known Rinzai Zen monk from Kyoto, 
the sesshin required us to sit cross-legged for 40 minutes, sixteen times per day. Each
day was divided into four sessions of four 40-minute sittings. During the evening of 
the third day, pain in my left  knee had become so overwhelming that I was exhaust-
ed. There was no way out, of course, because if you move your body in a Zen
y
sesshin,
you might as well go home. Having held the pain at arm’s length for as long as 


=== END OF PAGE 547 ===