=== PAGE 148 ===

134
SPEAKING BEING
mean anything, wouldn’t you? Yeah. So you need the pain to keep you from being wrong. At
least it works that way doesn’t it?
(She nods)
Good, that’s all I want you to see for the moment. I want you to see how godawful important
it is to look good. Now we’ve gotten looking good a lot more sharply defi ned. Looking good is
constituted by being right. Or having something you identify with as right. And having other
people and other things be wrong. Angel would tell you that people who get divorced easily and 
don’t have any pain are wrong. I want you to see that it is so important that you’re willing to
suff er pain over a long period of time: intense pain over a long period of time that destroys your
happiness. Being right is so important, so sacred, that even a lot of pain over a long time is not
too much a price to pay to be right. I want you to see that this is not anything that would occur
to you normally. It would never ever in a million years occur to Angel that the pain made her
right, because that’s not the structure for interpretation in which we hold life. You and I have 
invented a new structure of interpretation for life: racket. Getting divorced does not produce
pain. Having your child die does not produce pain. Rackets produce pain. What happens never 
produces pain. If you lose a child and you’re sad, that heals the loss, and that’s not a racket. 
Authentic sadness heals the loss, then the loss diminishes, then the sadness, and fi nally it’s 
complete. But not in a racket: where life becomes about being sad. It’s very hard to see this, and
that’s why you need to distinguish this possibility powerfully so that what was a soap opera, a 
drama, which is very real and valid, can be seen for what it is, namely a racket. That isn’t going
to be easy for you to do, so you need to listen up with the distinguishing.
(indicating Angel)
You and I are not fi nished. After the break.
Kipp set up paired shares. The Forum Supervisor announced the beginning of the break at 3:50 pm.
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 148 ===