=== PAGE 426 ===

412
SPEAKING BEING
Problems in life are presented as two equal but opposite forces in which you get stuck. Get a 
problem up for yourself and see that they are constructed by equal but opposite forces. The 
only problem with this is that there are some lies up here. What’s a lie up here?
GRACE
It’s the word “but” and it implies that there is no solution or no way out, or that you’re stuck.
WES
Okay. Here is what “but” means, and why it’s a problem: Problems are created by buts...
(laughter)r
Welcome to the fourth day of The Forum. Problems are created by buts, because “but” means
what follows it—this is the logic of linguistics here, okay—what follows “but” negates what pre-
cedes it, like an equal and opposite force to it. “I want to go to the beach” is stopped by the equal
and opposite force “I don’t have enough time,” because of “but.” You see that?
GRACE
Say “and”?
WES
Why would we want to say “and”?
GRACE
If you say “and” you have two things to look at and you can do something if you want to.
WES
That’s close. Here’s the question. “But” says this is an equal and opposite force to that. Is it really?
GRACE
No. They are two separate issues!
WES
What’s the equal and opposite force to “I don’t have time”?
GRACE
“I have time.”
WES
“I do have time,” right? “I do have time” is the equal and opposite force to “I don’t have time,”
so that’s what’s really equal and opposite. And “I don’t want to go to the beach” is the equal and 
opposite force to “I want to go to the beach.” 
the things about ourselves and our behavior that “we don’t know 
that we don’t know,” which emerge within the question: “What is
the Being of human beings?” In the second category are the new 
possibilities of Being, which can be distinguished only when the
blind spots have been discovered and chosen, and the background 
of meaninglessness revealed as it is within the question: “What is
the possibility of Being for human beings?”
 This categorization is certainly valid at the levels of aff ect and 
value—the “bad” behaviors we want to change versus the im-
proved versions we want to create—but considered ontologically, 
the diff erence is only apparent. The distinctions in both categories
assign meaning to the meaningless. But, it may be argued, were
not the behaviors being distinguished in the first category—such 
as my racket—already there, albeit unrecognized?
Heidegger responds that they have always been available as
possibilities. “What is spoken out is already necessarily within phy-
sis (Being), otherwise it could not be spoken from out of it” (FCM
26). This is why its emergence into the world clicks for us even as 
it blows us away, occurring as something that at some level we 
already knew; and thus its showing up is accompanied by “the ring 
of truth,” as shown in this brilliant passage from Being and Time:
Before Newton’s laws were discovered, they 
were not ‘true’; it does not follow that they 
were false, or even that they would
become false if ontically no discoveredness
were any longer possible. [. . .] To say that 
before Newton his laws were neither true nor 
false, cannot signify that before him there 
were no such entities as have been uncov-
ered and pointed out by those laws. Through 
Newton the laws became true and with them,
entities became accessible in themselves to
Dasein. Once entities have been uncovered, 
they show themselves precisely as entities 
which beforehand already were. Such uncover-
ing is the kind of Being which belongs to ‘truth.’ 
(BT 269, emphasis added)
“
WES (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 426 ===