=== PAGE 130 ===

116
SPEAKING BEING
“Proximally” is a term Heidegger uses frequently in Being and Time to characterize 
our most obvious and everyday experiences. These experiences, he says, do not 
include a perception of Being, which remains hidden, even though it constitutes 
the meaning and ground of what shows itself. Therefore, when defined by its sub-
ject-matter, “phenomenology is the science of the Being of entities—ontology” 
(BT 61). For Heidegger’s phenomenology “the thing itself” (which of course is not a 
T
thing at all) is Being.
A further complication for the phenomenological approach is that for Heide-
gger it must always be recognized as hermeneutical. Hermeneutics is the study of 
interpretation, the process by which we develop an understanding of a phenome-
non. We can never get to “the things themselves,” says Heidegger, since perception 
is always mediated by the understanding of the human being doing the perceiving,
and that understanding has always been arrived at by a process of interpretation.
Thus by defining his phenomenological method as hermeneutical, Heidegger is
including his recognition that whatever understanding he arrives at will never be the
“final” one: “For in such an inquiry, one is constantly compelled to face the possibil-
ity of disclosing an even more primordial and more universal horizon from which we 
may draw the answer to the question, “What is Being?” (BT 49). 
T
This lack of closure that characterizes a hermeneutical phenomenology is
important for both Heidegger and for the work of Werner Erhard. Heidegger’s stated
goal is to let Dasein “put itself into words for the very first time, so that it may decide 
SESSION ONE INTERVAL
Hermeneutic Phenomenology
Heidegger’s analysis of Dasein in Being and Time is based in two philosophical orien-
tations: phenomenology and hermeneutics.
Heidegger’s introduction to phenomenology as a philosophical method came 
by way of Heidegger’s mentor and colleague, Edmund Husserl, who summarized the 
approach with his famous exhortation, “To the things themselves!” In Heidegger’s 
characteristic reformulation of this approach, phenomenology means “to let that
which shows itself be seen from itself in the very way in which it shows itself from
itself” (BT 58). Both statements point to phenomenology’s fundamental purpose:
T
to set aside all previous theoretical and philosophical constructions (Husserl called
this “bracketing”), in order to bring the phenomena fully into the light.
Of course, Heidegger acknowledges, this purpose may be seen as “abundantly 
self-evident,” since it states “the underlying principle of any scientific knowledge 
whatsoever” (BT 50). And certainly phenomenology, as both a philosophical ori-
T
entation and a method of inquiry, is suff iciently flexible to have been subjected to
widely varying interpretations (see, e.g., www.phenomenologyonline.com). (Note: 
Although at the time of this 1989 Forum Werner Erhard did not present his work 
using the term “phenomenological,” his later projects, as well as the recent work of 
Landmark Worldwide, have employed this term.)
But regardless of the term’s inexactness, Heidegger is adamant that a rigorous
phenomenological inquiry can penetrate the layers of appearance and semblance
which normally impede our access to things. Heidegger’s goal in the inquiry is 
aletheia, or unconcealment, which for the early Greek philosophers was the truth of 
“pure sensory perception,” prior to any judgment or covering-up. Phenomenology 
perceives things “just by looking at them,” thereby (in a phrase employed by both
Heidegger and Werner Erhard) “letting beings be.”
Since Heidegger’s inquiry is concerned with the meaning of Being, his phenom-
enology has a specific character:
“
    What is it that by its very essence is necessarily the theme
y
whenever we exhibit something explicitly? Manifestly, it 
is something that proximally and for the most part does 
not show itself at all: it is something that lies
t
hidden, in 
contrast to that which proximally and for the most part 
does show itself; but at the same time it is something 
that belongs to what shows itself, and it belongs to it 
so essentially as to constitute its meaning and its 
ground. (BT 59)
T


=== END OF PAGE 130 ===