=== PAGE 356 ===

342
SPEAKING BEING
KEVIN (almost crying now)
I did my assignment; I almost didn’t do it. I called my wife this morning. I had forgotten that I 
was supposed to ask her if I was selfi sh. So I asked her if I’m selfi sh. Her fi rst response was to 
laugh.
(laughter)
It wasn’t a big laugh.
(bigger laughter)
I really mean that, I wasn’t trying to be cute I don’t think. But it was a genuine laugh. And I 
wasn’t quite sure what that was going to be followed by. And she paused for a minute and was 
thinking. And then she said, “Well, you do have to have control.” And so I was sitting there 
dealing with that. And then she said “But you’ve got a lot of good qualities to off set it.” I’m not 
trying not to cry. I don’t know what I’m trying to do. I’ve certainly never cried in front of a 
group like this. 
Let me tell you something. Anytime you actually meet yourself, it’ll move you to tears.
KEVIN
Well I’m not worried about crying. In some respects I wish I could cry.
ERHARD
That’s close enough. What you’re doing is fi ne.
KEVIN
So I told her I loved her and she told me she loved me and that was the end. I’m complete. 
Thanks.
ERHARD
Good.
(long applause)
WES
Just because we’re committed to you, we’re going to give those of you who raised your hand, 
those of you who didn’t get possibility yet, we’re going to give you one more shot at waking the 
fuck up. 
(laughter)
ERHARD  (lightly)
No scatological language, Wes, please.
What is Said When Conscience Calls?
The call of conscience is a calling to listen past the hubbub and 
to be brought back to one’s Self, but the “they” is not entirely 
circumvented; one cannot leap over what it means to be human. 
Rather, the “they” self plays an essential role: 
But the fact that the call passes over both the
r
“they” and the manner in which Dasein has
been publicly interpreted, does not by any
means signify that the “they” is not reached 
too. Precisely in passing over the “they” (keen 
r
as it is for public repute) the call pushes it into 
insignificance. But the Self, which the appeal 
has robbed of this lodgment and hiding-place,
gets brought to itself by the call. (BT 317
T
)
“


=== END OF PAGE 356 ===