=== PAGE 549 ===

 
 
 
Aft erword 
535
irresponsibly in ways that occasioned considerable suff ering on the part of others,
including members of his own family. He reported that by wiping away the signifi-
cance of his story, he was left  only with the ontological clearing. At this moment, what
l
showed up was the mess that he had created, but without any story about it, as well 
as the authentic obligation to clean things up. Erhard told me that in cleaning things 
up with his family, he told them he was not apologizing to them, because that would
somehow soft en the raw fact of what he had done. So long as he was his story, his 
self-justifying interior narrative, the suff ering he had provoked remained blunted. He
could not let others be who they were; instead, they were reduced to pawns in his own 
game. Unthinking identification with his story stood in the way of allowing others to
be beyond the limits imposed by their own narratives. This recognition contributed to 
his decision to initiate the est Training.
t
What it means to share in the est Training 
and The Forum
Most of the activity in the Training involved sharing by participants. Trainers (later, 
Forum leaders) were there to help participants recognize their rackets, their ways
of manipulating self and others for ends that are oft en not understood. As Hyde 
and Kopp have demonstrated so well in their book, the inter-subjective component 
was crucial to the success of The Forum, as it was for the est Training. The centrality
t
of sharing in the Training helps to explain why it could take people so far so fast,
when compared to other avenues to transformation. Over the course of many hours, 
participants listen to each other describe a similar mode of Being-in-the-world: 
operating so as to promote survival oft en at the expense of others and their own 
quality of life. It is easier to recognize these inauthentic ways of being in others, but 
having done so leaves me with the possibility of seeing them in myself. The Training 
and later The Forum (and The Landmark Forum) allowed over two million people 
to reliably experience liberation from their rackets, from the compulsion to be right 
(oft en at the expense of others) and from the need to constantly self-justify. 
In the Training that I took—and as in the 1989 Forum recounted in this book—
the dialogue opened up, and soon revealed that the participants were frustrated,
suff ering, confused, and hiding their pettiness, all because of what the Forum leader 
called their “rackets.” At first most people scoff ed at the idea that they were running
y
(or were run by) a racket. Instead, they were amazed at the ridiculous things that
other apparently accomplished people were saying about conducting their lives. 
Gradually, however, the courage exhibited by certain participants in their honest
sharing shift ed the mood in the room to one of utmost seriousness regarding what
was being disclosed. Increasingly, we began to support one another in the sharing 
process. We came to recognize that, perhaps for the first time, we were speaking 
frankly with others about what really matters in life, and about the obstacles that we
had placed in the path of living aligned with what really matters.
I recall one particular moment when I experienced this for myself. It was on
the Saturday aft ernoon of the second weekend of the Training that I took in 1981,
when participants were asked to take part in a “milling” exercise (which is not found
in The Forum or The Landmark Forum). The ballroom had been cleared of chairs.
In the large open space, we were asked to walk slowly around, making eye contact 
with others, but not engaging in conversation. We were simply to witness each oth-
er. By this point, many of us had already shared our stories. Otherwise successful, 
educated, and capable people had started to “come clean” about their rackets. We 
were in touch with the vast pain, heartache, sorrow, and frustration brought about
by our treachery, lying, cowardice, and perhaps above all self-deception. Even as I
write about this, I am brought back into that extraordinary moment, when waves 
of compassion began arising within me. I had never experienced anything like it. 
Finally understanding the mechanical, unavoidable aspect of so much human be-
havior, I also began to forgive others, and myself. We are thrown into a very diff icult
situation, we self-conscious human beings. Doing our best to survive and prosper, 
we sometimes act in ways that later haunt us.
The courageous sharing that occurred in the Training allowed me and others
to see the truth of the Hindu saying, Tat tvam asi, “That thou art.” The poor devil 
breaking down across the room, the other person who had made such a mess of her 
life even while being so “successful”—now I could see that person is me, just running
a diff erent racket! One by one, people began to realize that we are all in this togeth-
er. Run by fear, we employ survival strategies, oft en developed before we became 
self-conscious. By the time we are adults, we are deeply patterned to act in ways that 
protect us and that justify us, such that everything we do is “in order to” promote 
our self-defending project, whereas we experience little if anything in and for itself. 
People want to act nobly, generously, courageously, and honestly, but doing so is dif-
t
ficult and rare, which is why we admire people on those occasions when they can act
in such ways. Seeing how compulsive the actions of other people are, participants
gain insight into how circumscribed their own lives are as a result of fear and anxiety,
and see that furthermore, no amount of achievement, success, sex, drugs, and rock 
and roll will “fix me.” It is sometimes said that people are above all committed to
“Being right and looking good,” but in the Training invidious distinctions between 


=== END OF PAGE 549 ===