=== PAGE 346 ===

332
SPEAKING BEING
KIPP
Of what?
SARAH
My racket is “I’m an incompetent parent.” And as the people I had dinner with me last night 
would tell you, you get anywhere close to that and like, it’s survival, this is war. It’s like, you 
know...
KIPP
What are you talking about? What’s war? What’s survival?
SARAH
It’s like I... my racket is “I’m an incompetent parent.”
KIPP
You’re an incompetent parent.
SARAH
Right.
KIPP
And if somebody says...
SARAH
And if somebody even gets even pretty close to that...
KIPP
And questions you as a parent?
SARAH
They don’t even have to get that close. You know...
KIPP
Okay.
SARAH
So, last night, um, I was looking at some other always...already always beings, and I saw them 
as, you know, there was no meaning there for them. I looked at my past. I’m from the South, 
and I looked at some of these southern things we have; and I really got it: You can jump into 
that game, or you don’t, you know, it’s there. And I looked at my “I’m an incompetent par-
ent” and the terror, and I really felt the terror, and I couldn’t get to no meaning, to empty and 
meaningless. I couldn’t get it; I had that terror all night long. And I understood the person who 
stood up and said “when I was a little kid I was embarrassed, and I’m never embarrassed.” He’s 
The Call of Conscience
As we have shown, for both Martin Heidegger and Werner Erhard, 
the current experience of human being is fundamentally missing 
something. Heidegger located the source of this absence in the 
assumptions of the metaphysical tradition, whose understanding 
of the world does not include the background realm that he calls 
Being. At this point in development of that tradition, that anything 
is missing has also been forgotten; and beyond the next forgotten-
ness is oblivion (see the last sidebar of Session Three of Day 
Four). “Being,” says Heidegger, “is still waiting for the time when 
it will become thought-provoking to man” (“LH” in BW 227). Thus 
W
a central task of The Forum is to make present this deficiency in 
such a way that it transforms into a new possibility for Being.
However, human beings, when listening away to the “they” 
self, avoid confronting any deficiency by embracing distraction, 
losing themselves in the ways of the world into which they have
been thrown. The Self of Dasein, remember, is a way of existing,
and the way we exist is to fall into the arms of the possibilities we 
find open to us—the arms of the “they,” a world of curiosity, idle 
chatter, and ambiguity, which constitute the groundless public 
discourse that is always right, and for whom nothing is new. But 
in thus falling, we remain lost, wherein “Dasein makes no choices, 
gets carried along by the nobody [the “they” self, or as Erhard 
sometimes calls it, the “anybody” self] and thus ensnares itself in


=== END OF PAGE 346 ===