=== PAGE 522 ===

508
SPEAKING BEING
Here Erhard told the story about the three umpires: the rookie umpire who said he “calls them like 
they are,” the experienced umpire who said he calls them “like I see them,” and the master umpire, 
who said “They ain’t anything until I call them something.” 
ERHARD
That’s declaration. See, the umpire’s got the power of declaration. What is it? If President Carter 
wakes up in the middle of the night, says “to hell with glasnost, I’m sending the bombs out,” 
what does Rosalynn say? “Shut up, Jimmy, go to sleep.” But if President Bush does it, Barbara 
runs for the bomb shelter. Actually, the president doesn’t do that, but never mind; it ruins the 
story if I go into that. This power of declaration: That’s what it takes to be responsible, because 
being responsible is merely a declaration. It is the declaration that one is cause in the matter. It’s 
not a description of the case. It’s not a report on the facts: It’s a place to stand in life regarding 
what you care about. When I’m in India, I say the people who are hungry are responsible for 
their hunger. And the bleeding hearts have a problem with that. But I’ll tell you, if you are 
responsible for your hunger you’re a lot more powerful than if you’re a victim of being hungry. 
It’s quite clear to me that the hungry do not want to be hungry, and the hungry would not 
have it that way if they had the opportunity to do something about it. It’s quite clear to me that 
it takes more courage to live one day there than it takes for me to live ten years. But treating 
people as if they have no responsibility is disempowering to people. Now you can’t argue that 
you’re responsible, because that’s not a declaration, is it? That’s an assertion, an argument. A 
declaration has to be done freely, not coerced. You’ve got to have the power of declaration, and 
the power of declaration is a product of freedom. It’s a privilege to be responsible, not a burden 
to be responsible. “I am cause in the matter” is a stand for giving yourself power, not a report 
on the facts or the circumstances. It’s clear to me that I’m the cause in the matter of people’s 
hunger. I make that declaration; it gives me power with regard to the issue of hunger. It’s not a 
report on the fact that I did it. It’s a place to stand from which one has power. If it’s not my fault, 
if I didn’t do it—but none of that interests me—whose fault is it? Somebody gets to be wrong 
and somebody gets to be right. That’s the point. 
(indicating the “possibility” circle)
The realm of possibility is also the realm of responsibility. Most people are never going to be 
responsible because that realm doesn’t exist; you have to invent it. One of the things we haven’t 
told you is what you’re going to get out of being in The Forum. Listen up! What you’re going to 
get out of The Forum—yeah you’re going to get a lot of nice things and good things, but that’s 
all chicken shit. What you’re really going to get out of The Forum is whatever you’re willing to 
stand for having gotten out of The Forum. You’re not going to get out of The Forum what we 
gave you because we can’t give you anything of value. You know, all these people are not here 
because we have something valuable to give to people. You can’t get anything valuable from 
other people. Like “be given it.” Chicken shit is what we get from one another. But you can give 
yourself something valuable. You can give yourself something extraordinarily valuable. You 
can give yourself something that will last the rest of your life. You can give yourself something 
that will make it that your life is never the same. So here’s my promise: I promise that you can 
have anything out of The Forum you’re willing to stand for having gotten. I also promise you 
What you’re really going to get out of The
Forum is whatever you’re willing to stand for 
having gotten out of The Forum.
“


=== END OF PAGE 522 ===