=== PAGE 357 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
343
Kipp asked those who did not see possibility in empty and meaningless to stand. About fi fteen peo-
ple stood; one of them received a microphone.
WES
There’s just one last little piece stuck to it, a little piece of meaning stuck to it keeps possibility 
from occurring.
Kipp confi rmed with those standing that they are yet to be “clear” about life being empty and 
meaningless and that it is empty and meaningless that it’s empty and meaningless.
ERHARD
Hold on. Is it that you don’t get it or you don’t like it? Which is it with you? 
ANABETH
I don’t see either. I thought the question was: “do we see possibility?”
ERHARD
We’re restating the question. The question is: Did you get that it is empty and meaningless, and 
that it’s empty and meaningless that it’s empty and meaningless? Did you get that?
ANABETH
Yes. 
ERHARD
Good, then we apologize for misleading you. You’re welcome to sit down now. 
(several participants sitting down)
The only people who should be standing are those who didn’t get that it’s empty and meaning-
less and that it’s empty and meaningless that it’s empty and meaningless. So that’s what you 
didn’t get.
BRADLEY
I don’t think so.
ERHARD
Who should I ask?
(to a seated participant)
Did he get that?
(laughter)
Should I ask him? Who should I ask?
In the language of The Forum, the concern for looking good and
being right, inauthentic to the core, gets revealed as empty, as 
lacking any ultimate ground, as utterly without meaning. That is, 
the “they” self is not some inner self enclosed within the frame
of the external world; rather, it “is” only by virtue of Being-in-the-
world.
But if conscience occurs as a call, as a summons that passes
over the “they” self, what form does it take? What is said in the
call? The call is not vocal utterance; nevertheless, as calling, it is a 
mode of discourse:
But how are we to determine what is said in 
the talk that belongs to this kind of discourse?
k
What does the conscience call to him to whom 
t
it appeals? Taken strictly, nothing. The call 
asserts nothing, gives no information about 
world-events, has nothing to tell. Least of 
all does it try to set going a ‘soliloquy’ in the 
Self to which it has appealed. ‘Nothing’ gets 
called to this Self, but it has been summoned to
d
itself—that is, to its ownmost potentiality-for-
Being. (BT 318
T
)
“
The call of conscience, says Heidegger, is discourse in the mode
of silence, and its message is unequivocal: it says nothing: the
call speaks through what is left unsaid. Any misunderstanding
of this message is due not to its mis-calling, but to interference
from the soliloquy through which the “they” self (i.e., the socially 
constructed identity) interprets the call (BT 318–19). Thus the 
T
“nothing,” revealed in anxiety through the call of conscience,
holds the possibility of authentic self-revelation. 
Throughout Heidegger’s thought we find the essentiality 
of non-Being as the other side of Being; and Heidegger takes 
full advantage of the rhetorical possibilities of the nothing,
recognizing the opportunities for paradox and reflexion which 
arise in discussing a “something” which is “nothing.” We mean 
“rhetorical” in two related senses. The first is its essential sense 
as the use of language for the primal assignment of meaning as


=== END OF PAGE 357 ===