=== PAGE 90 ===

76
SPEAKING BEING
PARTICIPANT
I’m going to figure out what you’re saying wrong.
ERHARD
There’s a lot of crap in school. I don’t want to put the school system down. I have a lot of 
respect for teachers. But one of the things you find out in school is that you’re either smart or 
dumb. However, there’s no such thing as dumb. I did some work in a school for the disabled. 
One student, Jesse, was considered “uneducable.” It was decided, however, that he was educa-
ble enough to be sent to a school to learn to wash cars. On the day I was there, I was told that 
Jesse had stuffed a teacher in a trash can. As a consequence, he got sent back to the home for 
disabled students, where he could sit around, be friendly, and play. Stupid is a way to survive in 
school. Stupid is an act, a racket.
PARTICIPANT
The already always listening that I am is “I don’t want to and you can’t make me.”
ERHARD
You want to get this. A lot of people listen through “life is hard.” A lot of people listen through 
“life is a burden.” My dentist told me about his experience as a Boy Scout. No matter what the 
scoutmaster had suggested—hiking, swimming, going home—the Scouts always had the same 
response: “OH NOOOOOO!” You are this listening. That’s the clearing you are in which life 
happens. 
PARTICIPANT
Mine is “How can I use this?” “How can I get better?”
ERHARD
Almost everybody’s like that: “How can I use this?” Almost all the power in the world can’t be 
used. People don’t use power. Power uses people.
PARTICIPANT
“What are you going to tell me new that I don’t already know?”
ERHARD
Great.
PARTICIPANT
My already always listening is “How can I help you? Do you like me now?”
ERHARD
Beautiful.
are the cause of the world’s yellowness. Like the sunglasses, one’s 
way of listening remains invisible because it is always and already 
determining one’s point of view, making the way a situation 
appears become the way things are. The aim of this inquiry is 
for participants to notice these already always ways of listening 
in as much specificity as possible. The Forum proposes that the 
fundamental elements of human listening are widely shared, even 
across cultures; Erhard asserts that there is a “culture of human 
being” that transcends national boundaries. All human beings, 
for example, listen for positive assessments of themselves, and 
for evidence that they are right in their beliefs about the world. 
But individuals develop specific variations, and in this part of The 
Forum dialogue participants are encouraged to discover their own. 
In this way, the dialogue continues to turn participants toward 
themselves in an intensely reflexive process. ■


=== END OF PAGE 90 ===