=== PAGE 217 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Two 203
hurt.” This last statement came from a participant who had lived in bed for eight years with back 
pain. 
WES
What’s here in The Forum now is a safe place to communicate what’s really so for you in your 
life. We’ve designed a space in here where you can confront your own fear of being alive, your 
own fear of other people and of living. I invite you to experience it, not to avoid it; not to sleep 
through it. Wake up! I don’t know who you got out there that you lie to, but the ultimate jerk 
is someone who lies to themselves. You may have people conned, but the one person you don’t 
want to con is yourself. It turns you into the ultimate jerk. This is a chance to get straight with 
yourself, to fi nd out what is running your life. 
PARTICIPANT
I’m powerfully addicted to approval. If I don’t get it I leave. 
WES
And what’s underneath that is fear. 
(to the group) 
Let it up in your body. At fi rst you’ll have to reach for it. You’re so dead to it you have to reach 
for it. The fear is so frightening that you’ll fi nd an unwillingness to fully get present for it. Let it 
up for yourself. 
BETHANY
My knees are shaking.
WES
Allow it to be.
BETHANY
I can’t let my sons love me. I ask: “what would happen if I let them love me?” 
WES
Here’s what it’s all about. You need to experience your deep and profound fear of being loved by 
them. What would happen if you let that in, and then left, or they died? 
BETHANY
I don’t know what I would do, or what it would feel like.
WES
Just let yourself experience what stops you from letting them love you. Very simple. Don’t make 
any decisions. Just acknowledge and experience the fear. We’re in a group of exercises. That’s 
what there is to do in this exercise. Just experience that.
From Fearful to Fearsome
In addition to boredom, two other human moods are presented 
by Heidegger as having special potential for making possible an 
authentic disclosure of our thrownness.
The first is fear. The evocation of the underlying source of fear 
has been a significant element of Erhard’s work since its inception, 
in both the est Training and The Forum.
The second is anxiety. Heidegger draws a fundamental 
distinction between these two states-of-mind. Fear may of course 
take various forms, such as alarm, terror, or dread. But in every 
case the source of the fear remains the same: “All modifications 
of fear, as possibilities of having a state-of-mind, point to the fact 
that Dasein as Being-in-the-world is ‘fearful’” (BT 182, emphasis 
added). This is the element of the human condition that is being 
distinguished at this point in The Forum. In fear, “that in the face 
of which we fear is a detrimental entity within-the-world” (BT 
230). That is, we are always afraid of something; something has a 
significance, and that significance arouses our fear. But fear is not 
generated by the something. 
The exercise being initiated by the Forum leader here—
referred to as the Danger Process—is designed to distinguish the 
nature and source of the participants’ fear, and to transform their 
relationship to life from “life is dangerous” (I am at the eff ect of 
life) to “I am dangerous” (I am powerful in life). 
Erhard has told the participants that The Forum is designed to 
“take them down one step at a time,” and the evocation of fear at 
this point is an important step. The structure of the Danger Process 
first evokes the fearful mood, so that, in Heidegger’s words, 
“fear can then look at the fearsome explicitly, and ‘make it clear’ 
to itself” (BT 180). But then, in a dramatic example of reflexive 
rhetoric, the fearsome is flipped. The fearful become the fearsome. 
In this way, participants take an important hurdle, a stretch toward 
the ultimate leap of their transformation. 
Anxiety
What is concealed in the mood of fear is anxiety. Anxiety, says 
Heidegger, is “what first makes fear possible” (BT 230). Fear is, as it 
were, anxiety with a false cause. Fear arises when Dasein flees the 


=== END OF PAGE 217 ===