=== PAGE 74 ===

60
SPEAKING BEING
The Forum resumed at 4:00 pm. Erhard was not present for this session. During 
the first half-hour, The Forum Supervisor, Julie, oversaw a procedure that took 
place in every Forum (but is currently not practiced in The Landmark Forum): 
participants raised their hands, section by section, to request rides or places to stay 
during the four days of The Forum, and other participants responded with offers. 
This process having been completed, Kipp came onto the platform. He introduced 
himself and Wes as the two Forum leaders who would be leading The Forum with 
Erhard, and then turned to the next order of business: the promises and requests 
of The Forum, which Erhard had mentioned earlier in the day. Julie, the Course 
Supervisor, came forward. 
JULIE
We’re asking you to give your word—to make certain promises—and to keep 
your word—to keep the promises.
The required promises:
(1) Regarding speaking in The Forum: Raise your hand, speak into the micro-
phone. Don’t talk to each other during The Forum.
(2) Wear your name tag at all times. Get the name on the tag correct.
(3) Take no notes. No tape recorders or cameras, no busy work at your chair, 
no food/drink in the room. Exception: Forum leaders may take notes.
(4) You agree to maintain the confidentiality of The Forum. This includes 
names of participants and their remarks. Keep in mind that confidentiality in 
a group of this size cannot be guaranteed.
(5) Regarding videotaping: if you didn’t earlier sign a video release, sit in the 
no-video section.
(6) No resale agreement. All materials in this program are the property of 
Werner Erhard and Associates, in some instances protected by copyright. 
You agree not to resell, modify, package, and deliver in a seminar, training 
program, workshop, consulting, or similar business activity. This protection 
extends beyond the copyright law.
(7) Informed consent. The Forum is not therapeutic in design or intent. Forum 
leaders are not trained mental health professionals. A series of questions was 
included about participant’s status with regard to therapy. If you’re in therapy 
and winning, advise your therapist. If not, or if you’ve been hospitalized for 
drug or alcohol abuse, we recommend you don’t take The Forum. In the form 
you signed earlier there is a list of emotions which may come up during The 
Forum; if you find them threatening, don’t take the Forum. If you have a prob-
lem dealing with stress, don’t take The Forum. Certain medical conditions and 
certain drugs are also listed in this category. This informed consent is intended 
to have legal significance.
FORUM DAY ONE: SESSION THREE
KIPP
Are there any questions regarding the ground rules?
PARTICIPANT
What are the reasons for the rules?
KIPP
Everything that we design is not meant to suppress you. It’s meant to provide 
maximum possible benefit for you from The Forum. 
PARTICIPANT
I’d like to know why we’re spending so much time on logistics. I’m angry.
(applause from some of the group)
KIPP
So you have no question? Thanks.
Following the required rules, an opportunity to leave was announced. No one did. 
KIPP
Your sitting in your chair is a promise, and we will relate to you on the basis 
that you have given your word. 
JULIE  (continuing to read the recommended promises)
(1) Be present for all sessions. We recommend that you be on time in the 
morning and back from breaks. If you miss any part of any Forum session, you 
forfeit the right to expect the results of The Forum.
(2) Do not consume drugs and medications—including alcohol, aspirin, mar-
ijuana, but not including those prescribed by your doctor—before the end of 
the fourth day of The Forum.
(3) Stay awake during The Forum. Staying awake is easier if you don’t slouch 
or slump in your chair. If you get sleepy, we recommend that you sit straight 
in the chair with your eyes open.
KIPP
A distinction has started to open up in the room: I’ll try vs. I’ll keep my promis-
es. This distinction was not merely about words. We’re not asking you to speak 
a certain way. We’re showing you a distinction of an empowering way to be 
with promises.


=== END OF PAGE 74 ===