=== PAGE 272 ===

258
SPEAKING BEING
MOLLY
My mother shifted. She talked about how she’d made a lot of mistakes. And how her parents 
were diff erent. They weren’t taught how to be with their kids.
ERHARD
You made mistakes raising your children means you made mistakes raising your children, it 
doesn’t mean “bad mother,” even though that’s what you got it to mean.
MOLLY
And then she said: “How can we get from here to there?” 
ERHARD
Nobody wants to be there. They want to get there. But you can’t get there. You can only be there. 
That’s the joke. Nothing is going to make you happy. Nothing. Nothing is going to make you 
happy. That happens to be literally true, by the way, but never mind that. You’re going to spend 
the rest of your life trying to get what is going to make you happy, except that nothing’s going 
to get you happy. You’ve gotta be happy, you can’t get happy. Getting is anathema to happiness. 
The pursuit of happiness is the single most eff ective barrier to happiness. Nothing is more 
certain to deprive you of happiness than the pursuit of happiness. This is another form of that 
answer that there is no answer.
MOLLY
I said to my parents: “Didn’t something shift? We’re here now.” And they laughed. And it was 
tender. 
ERHARD
That’s really living—that laugh. Is there anything more to complete about this?
MOLLY
After the phone call to my parents, talking to my husband, I remembered an incident when 
I was four years old. I was jumping on the couch and I hit the window and cracked open my 
forehead. 18 stitches. I was given a washcloth and there was all this blood. We went to the 
hospital. In the operating room, all I could see was a huge light, and this disembodied doctor’s 
voice told my mother to leave. She left. She went away and left me there. My whole life has been 
about that. I’ve been stuck with that abandonment all my life. 
ERHARD
Yeah, and stuck with that bright light.
(laughter)
You can’t say anything more important than “that’s what my life has been about ever since.” 
That gets you to the source of your whole life. That gets you to zero. All the way back, at 
nothing.
Nothing is going to make you happy. Nothing.
Nothing is going to make you happy. That hap-
pens to be literally true, by the way, but never 
mind that.
“


=== END OF PAGE 272 ===