=== PAGE 75 ===

Forum Day One: Session Three 61
way, a way you’re going to have to invent rather than discover. Namely, what 
you’re willing to put at stake. You can’t ever find something at stake. You can 
only invent it, create it. It’s a creative act, it’s a self-generated challenge which 
you create for yourself. And that’s who you are for The Forum. Some of the 
tools you need for this we haven’t developed in here yet. The first place you 
will look is at what’s wrong with you. Let that be. This is confusing because 
it requires real thinking. Your reasons got you here but they are no longer 
sufficient. During the meal break, I invite you to create what you’re willing to 
put at stake.
(pausing)
This works. We’re not wondering anymore whether The Forum works. We’re 
promising you that you can have anything you are willing to stand for having 
gotten in The Forum. And the access to that is your willingness to put yourself 
at stake here in The Forum. This requires speaking. You speak yourself in the 
matter. The first action which it requires is speaking, speaking what you’re 
putting at stake. And the second part is to promise to be your word. Have a 
conversation with others at dinner about this: if your life were an expression, 
what would that expression be? The Forum won’t provide you with what’s 
possible out of a reason for being here. At-stakeness is something that exists 
the moment you create it as a possibility. What we’re asking you to do is to 
begin to create your life. What you’re willing to stand for in here is what you 
have at stake. 
PARTICIPANT
What’s the difference between The Forum and positive thinking? 
KIPP 
Remember that “stop thinking” exercise we mentioned earlier? Try to make 
all those thoughts positive. It’s a difficult thing to do, trying to make some-
thing you have nothing to do with positive. Like, “Oh my God! There’s a bad 
thought! It’s supposed to be positive!”
(to the group)
During the meal break, you are to create what you are willing to put at stake 
like a possibility. Have a conversation with another person and with who you 
are going to have dinner with.
Following this discussion, Julie came onto the platform and announced a meal 
break at 6:20 pm.
JULIE  (continuing to read the suggested promises)
(1) Eat only during the one announced meal break. Eat a big breakfast.
(2) Don’t sit next to someone you knew before The Forum started.
(3) Advise us of the phone number where you’re staying this week. 
Assistants distributed phone information cards.
PARTICIPANT
Is gum chewing forbidden in The Forum? 
KIPP 
How many drops of pee does it take to spoil the stew? 
PARTICIPANT 
One.
KIPP 
Get it? 
PARTICIPANT
I know I should say yes. I know the group is the stew. Am I the pee?
KIPP
You’re at a moment of choice now.
(to the group)
What are some reasons for being in The Forum? 
PARTICIPANTS (several calling out)
So my speaking is a possibility for people; Because I know there’s more out 
there; etc. 
KIPP 
Now let’s hear some things you could fix from being in The Forum. 
Again, people called out answers, a series of standard benefi ts similar in quality to 
the fi rst group of responses. 
KIPP 
Neither of these provide you with what work The Forum has for you. A reason 
for being here, or something to fix, won’t provide you with what you need 
to be in The Forum. So we’re going to have to think of being here in a new 


=== END OF PAGE 75 ===