=== PAGE 437 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
423
KIPP
Right. That’s accurate terminology. Wants are part of the structure of being a human being. The
truth is: You’ve got to make people wrong in order to be right. 
DOREL
The fi rst night I left here I got lost, because I don’t live here.
KIPP
No, you got lost.
DOREL
I got lost.
KIPP
You hear the diff erence? You got lost. You just got lost.
DOREL
And I got so damn angry at my brother-in-law who was supposed to leave me with a map and
directions and everything, but he didn’t. He just called me the night before everything started.
KIPP
You were lost and angry. Before you were just lost. Now you got lost and angry. A stupid person, 
right?
DOREL (laughing)
Right.
KIPP
You could have just been lost.
(laughter)r
Except you had to screw it up and put anger in there. 
DOREL
That’s right. And in a way I enjoy that.
KIPP
It’s familiar. Kick the walls. Spit on the fl oor. Exactly.
DOREL
The following night I had to get mad at the parking lot attendant.
various relationships), and we ourselves (and our properties and in
various relationships), along with the spatiality of here and there,
and the temporality of the past, the present, and the future. 
The “ourselves” that shows up in the clearing that we are, is
that to which we refer when we say “I” or “me”—that is, our partic-
ular way of being in this or that moment, or our sense of ourselves 
(our identity or persona).  You can confirm this by noticing that you
(as the clearing you are) are capable of being aware of yourself as
whatever it is that you are referring to when you say “I” or “me,” 
and the at-the-moment way of being of that “I” or “me.”  In other 
words, what you refer to when you say “I” or “me” shows up for 
you in the clearing that you fundamentally and essentially are.
We note here that a drawback with the phrase the clearing 
that we are is that it seems to imply subjectivity, and it is definitely 
not meant in that way.  We will clarify and fully develop this during 
t
the in-class sessions of the course.
Saying all this in other words:  Being for human beings (the 
fundamental and essential nature of being for human beings)
is always and only, as philosopher Martin Heidegger so brilliantly
nailed it, “being in the world” (Being and Time). While we 
generally think of being as something located “in here,” if you 
take a careful look you will see that you are always being with
something or being about something, that is, always being in
t
the world (even if the part of the world you are being with is that 
thing you refer to when you say “I” or “me” or the way of being
of “I” or “me”).
You can confirm for yourself that being for you is being in the 
world, that you are so to speak a clearing for it all, in that when you 
are conscious, you are always conscious of something or conscious
about something (even if what you are conscious of in a given mo-
ment is being conscious).  In other words, for human beings what
it is to be is for the world, all of it (our entire “state of the world”) to 
show up (to occur).
Our moment to moment way of being is not the fundamental 
t
and essential nature of being for us human beings.  When we are 
being the clearing for life to show up, and our “I” or “me” self is


=== END OF PAGE 437 ===