=== PAGE 465 ===

Forum Day Four: Session Three 451
MAC
That is what we plan to do. And other issues have come up. For example, I told my wife, “You 
know, we have a lot of tension around getting lost here in the Bay Area.” And we’ve gotten lost 
a lot! You know, getting lost is like a way of life for us! So who I’m going to be the next time we 
get lost, is lost. I’m going to let myself be lost and enjoy some new lost area!
(applause)
It’s genuine. It’s how I’m going to live! I’m amazed at the diff erence this is in my life! And how 
did I get here? I’ve resisted this for something like ten years. I belong to a men’s group. Six of us. 
Very intimate. Met twice a month. Five were involved with your program. I was not. I fought it. 
I didn’t need it and I thought it was a bunch of shit. Okay? About six months ago my son called 
me. He said “Dad, you know what? I just experienced something. I was at a Forum and I think 
you ought to go.” I paused and listened to him. I was still resisting. And then he went and did 
other programs and kept saying simply, “Dad, I think you ought to go.” And now I am going to 
call him to thank him for the wonderful gift he has given me.
(long applause with many people standing)
KIPP
Thank you very much. What occurred to me when you were standing, acknowledging Mac, 
you know, what brings tears to your eyes is being in the presence of your own magnifi cence. 
As Mac spoke, what he opened up for you is being in the presence of your magnifi cence. He 
was astounding as he is in his speaking and his generosity, but what’s present in the room is 
who you are. And by the way, if you’re not that way right now—some of you are at the other 
level of the roller coaster and you think you should be where the other people are standing and 
cheering for Mac—don’t get sucked into that. Wherever you are is where you are. 
WES
The other thing you want to get is how shitty you were before The Forum. 
(laughter)
It might be useful for you to confront what you were like for those people who shared The Forum 
with you, and who you were like for others in your life. Regardless of whether they shared with 
you skillfully or not, they were committed to something. And that’s a lot more than most people 
are up to. And you couldn’t help but be in the presence of the work when Mac shared. This is a big 
person, and you remember he and I had that conversation about the ending time the other day. 
Same person. And this is who Mac is now. I had to confront the same thing when I did The Forum. 
I’m inviting you to confront it: who you have been for other people and who you can be. And as 
you step out of The Forum into your life... you know, I know that Mac will share The Forum with 
people, and he’ll do it as well as he does, and he’ll learn and he’ll do it better—sounds pretty good 
right now—and no matter how great Mac will be, there will be people unwilling to get what he’s 
really committed to, who will turn it into something. And the question will be whether Mac will 
stop being committed to whatever he’s committed to in sharing The Forum, or will he continue on 
in the face of that.


=== END OF PAGE 465 ===