=== PAGE 527 ===

Forum Day Four: Session Three 513
WALT
Okay. I’m just trying to handle the steps I’ve taken. 
ERHARD
You’re doing the right thing. Go ahead.
WALT
In the previous days here, I’ve been able to get outside of myself. The meaninglessness, and 
the meaninglessness of that, was a further push out of myself. And it’s an exciting place to be 
for action. I have a concern that this will just remain potential. And I want to use it as soon as 
possible so that it does not remain potential, or just a memory. 
ERHARD
Your actions will be consistent with it remaining a potential, and consistent with your avoiding 
that.
WALT
So I will not avoid that.
ERHARD
I don’t know. I just said your actions would be consistent with the occurring you created.
WALT
Okay. So I say...
ERHARD
Relax. See, relax. All you got to do is be here. Real simple. All you got to do is be here. This stuff  
works. It actually works.
WALT
But it’s too great just to let it sit.
ERHARD
No, it’s so great you’ve got to let it sit. All you’ve got to do is take a stand for anything you want 
to get out of The Forum. 
WALT
Yeah but me... get out of The Forum, it’s puny compared to what you’ve put on the board. 
ERHARD
I didn’t say “you,” like limiting it to you, like you, individually. “One can give...” Is that better?
sequence so that the original sending of Being as presence is more 
and more obscured in diff erent ways” (OTB 9). 
Therefore Heidegger makes his case in the strongest 
possible terms: it is not just that our technological way of being is 
distancing and impersonal. It is that once we lose ourselves in the 
system, we may not be able to find our way out. As the Cartesian 
subject, the self-certain lord of the earth, we encountered our 
subjective truth in every objective being. But enframed as 
resources for technology, “precisely nowhere does man today 
any longer encounter himself, i.e., his essence” (“QCT” in BW 332). 
We might begin to detect in Heidegger’s discourse the hint of a 
persistent complaint reaching a fever pitch:
Enframing does not simply endanger man in
his relationship to himself and to everything
that is. As a destining, it banishes man into the
kind of revealing that is an ordering. Where this
ordering holds sway, it drives out every other 
possibility of revealing. [. . .] 
The rule of enframing threatens man with the 
possibility that it could be denied to him to en-
ter into a more original revealing and hence to 
experience the call of a more primal truth. Thus
where enframing reigns, there is danger in the
highest sense. (“QCT” in BW 332–333)
“
The culmination: what has been lost is forgotten. 
Enframing disguises even this, its disguising, just
as the forgetting of something forgets itself and
is drawn away in the wake of forgetful oblivion. 
The coming-to-pass of oblivion not only lets fall
from remembrance into concealment; but that
falling itself falls simultaneously from remem-
brance into concealment, which itself also falls
away in that falling. (“TT” in QCT 46)
“


=== END OF PAGE 527 ===