=== PAGE 52 ===

38
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD (pausing to wake a participant who was nodding off ) 
It’s okay to sleep in here if you can do it bolt upright with your eyes open. 
(returning to his topic)
Ontology is the diff erence between knowing how to play tennis and being a tennis player. They 
don’t teach this in school for the most part, and when they do, they do it badly for the most part.
An ontological approach—that is to say, a concern-for-being approach—has got a lot of room in
it because it’s something we haven’t engaged in very much. The point is, there’s a lot of room 
in a new realm. The psychological approach is one we’ve pushed really hard. And I want to be 
clear I’m not denigrating it. And that’s not our approach.
(moving to one of the blackboards) 
So far, we’ve distinguished two realms of existence. A phenomenon can exist in the realm of 
story and it can exist in the realm of what happened.
Erhard drew two circles on the board: in the left circle he wrote the word  “Story,” and in the right he
wrote “What Happened.”
ERHARD (indicating the left circle)
Max gave us a good example. There’s the story of Vietnam and that’s here. And there’s what
happened, and that’s here.
(indicating the right circle in which he wrote “what happened”)
We’re going to see what happens when you begin to distinguish these two. You’re going to see
the impact it has on your ability and state of being to distinguish Vietnam “the story” and Viet-
nam “the what happened.” You can apply the demonstration anywhere. We need to talk about 
thinking. Listen up. This is hard. Human beings have the notion that they think. Or—I might 
as well introduce this—they are that they think. They be like they’re thinking. And there is 
something happening. You and I call that “I think.” Here’s an exercise to tell if you’re thinking.
I’m going to shut up and you’re going to stop thinking.
(pausing for about fi fteen seconds)
You didn’t make it, did you? Nobody ever does, because it’s not you thinking. If you were
thinking then you could stop thinking. It is thinking, and you are having the thoughts it thinks.
t
Which is true? The old way of saying it or the way I said it? That’s not the point. I told you,
I don’t know the truth. I’m saying there’s something empowering about this, in the recogni-
tion that you don’t think. Like: “Hmm. I’m not thinking. It’s thinking, and I’m having those 
thoughts.” What comes up when you think this way is the possibility of actually thinking. 
Thinking is a process independent of those thoughts. Thinking is something like sitting with,
or more precisely something like dwelling in. It’s not like fi guring it out. You see, I asked you to
g
dwell in the possibility that it’s not you thinking.
(pausing again to address a number of people in the room who were getting sleepy) 
It always happens about now. Thinking about thinking puts you to sleep. Thinking wakes you
g
up. Thinking is when you have to break your mind—though not all of that is thinking. Some of 
it is bullshit.
“ 
It is thinking, and you are having the thoughts
t
it thinks. . . . Thinking is something like
sitting with, or more precisely something like
dwelling in. It’s not like figuring it out.


=== END OF PAGE 52 ===