=== PAGE 142 ===

128
SPEAKING BEING
distinguishing distinction. And then I saw that there’s a particular relationship that I’ve adopted. 
I don’t see the incident, but I’ve got an already always listening, a new one I hadn’t seen before: 
“this is theirs, not mine.” I can see now that’s been using my life. There’s an opening.
ERHARD
When you can see “it’s theirs, not mine,” then there’s a possibility beyond “it’s theirs, not mine.” 
When you keep avoiding it, there is no possibility.
KYLE
What is the diff erence between diff erence and distinction?
ERHARD
Distinction is not dependent upon relationship, and diff erence is. Something that’s diff erent
is dependent upon that from which it is diff erent. I don’t see photons, I see people, although
what’s out there are photons. I don’t see with my eyes. I see with my mouth. That is to say, I 
see with language. Things occur as they occur because of language. What distinguishing is, is
to take something like an undiff erentiated mass and to bring forth from that mass a realm of 
possibility. Distinction gives existence. It makes existence possible. Distinctions aren’t depen-
dent on. They are kind of, of themselves. The eff ectiveness of someone who can deal from the
whole—and all that means is having the distinction—is very diff erent from someone who has 
all the parts.
(Kyle sits down)
Why we had this whole discussion: so we can distinguish racket—so your racket occurs for 
you as a racket. So that you’re not looking around for what fi ts the defi nition. I want it to show 
up for you as a presence. I’m going to distinguish a racket. A racket’s got to be something that
you’re protesting, saying you don’t want to be doing or being. Something you wish you weren’t
doing, or trying not to do it. Like let’s say you’re being stupid. It’s not a racket if you say listen, 
I’m being stupid on purpose, I get a lot out of being stupid. See when I’m stupid I don’t have to 
be responsible for anything. That’s not a racket. A racket is where you are like, “I wish I wasn’t
so stupid!” That’s when it’s a racket. A racket has got to be something you’re doing or being that 
you are protesting or resisting or that you don’t want to do or be. That’s what makes it a racket. 
And what’s driving it is the payoff . You’re getting something out of being stupid—that’s your 
racket. Like, “my family walks all over me, and I don’t want them to do that.” There’s a protest 
there. Then what’s the payoff ? I get to feel sorry for myself. “Oh I see: that’s a racket.” What’s 
driving you to be a way that your family walks all over you is the payoff  you get for having your 
family walk all over you. And then there’s a cost. There are three elements to a racket. You’re
doing or being something that you’re protesting or resisting, but you’re still doing it. It’s persist-
ing and you’re protesting the persistence. The second element is the payoff . It’s the payoff  which 
drives the racket. Rackets are not habits. Take the payoff  away, the racket disappears immediate-
ly. Being cranky is not a habit. Brushing your teeth is a habit. Pull all your teeth out, you’d brush
your teeth about three days. The payoff s are invariant and the costs are also always the same. 
Someone give me an example.
The scholar John Anderson has observed that throughout his
work, Martin Heidegger is “urging his hearers and readers toward 
a kind of transmutation of themselves. . .” (DT 12). Ronald Bruzina
locates this transmutation in a surrender to the direction of Heide-
gger’s thinking: 
Heidegger is not attempting to formulate a 
position, but rather to execute a movement. If 
we realize now that this “movement” he exe-
cutes is not only always in language, but also
in a highly original and strange kind of word-
ing, then we are close to seeing that this very 
immersion in a wording movement constitutes
thinking. (Ronald Bruzina, “Heidegger on the
Metaphor and Philosophy” 197)
“
Heidegger himself claimed that this direction of movement 
requires a transformation, which “occurs as a passage. . . in which 
one site is left  behind in favor of another. . . and that requires that
the sites be placed in discussion” (“DL” in OWL 42).
The critical element in this process was the passage. This point 
was made again at the beginning of the lecture series later published 
as On Time and Being, when Heidegger instructed his students on
the way of listening they should bring to the lectures in order that the 
intended transformation might be achieved: “Let me give a little hint 
on how to listen,” he said. “The point is not to listen to a series of prop-
ositions, but rather to follow the movement of showing” (OTB 2).
At the same time, Heidegger recognized the limitations of the 
lecture format for achieving the transformation he sought. In con-
cluding this same lecture series, he acknowledged that “the form of a 
lecture remains itself an obstacle. . . . The lecture has spoken merely in 
propositional statements” (OTB 24). Neither, he suggested elsewhere, 
is a “scientific dissertation” an appropriate medium for an inquiry into
language and Being, since “the movement of the questioning that is
called for here might too easily congeal” (“DL” in OWL 50, emphasis
added). Nor, he added, can “a transformation” be “established as the 
consequence of an accumulation of the results of philosophical re-
search” (“DL” in OWL 42). For Heidegger as for Erhard, transformation 
was a gestalt switch from one site of understanding to another, a leap.
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 5; continuing
(
)


=== END OF PAGE 142 ===