=== PAGE 60 ===

46
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
Let me tell you something, my friend. You’re not going to get anything out of here you can do 
something with. Do you think I’m going to give an asshole tools? What you walk out of here 
with will give you freedom. You won’t use it. It will use you. I have read all the books, and I’ve 
gotten value; but that’s not transformational.
JAKE
I don’t know where you’re coming from with this asshole stuff . 
ERHARD
It’s not because you are one. I don’t call you an asshole because it’s an apt description. I call you 
that because it has an impact. If I wanted to call you the right name I’d call you Jake.
JAKE
I’m doing a good job as I listen to you, as we talk about keeping your word and things like that. I’m 
aware of the burden I infl ict on myself with trying to keep my word.
ERHARD
And you see, when you walk out of here, you will be free to be your word. There will be no
burden in your word. Not bad. It’s worth something isn’t it? But you haven’t the remotest clue
about how to get there. You couldn’t get there in a billion years. Now we need you to get there,
but you’re stuck in this area. So that’s my business.
(laughter)
If I need someone in your business to do something, I don’t come to me, because I’m an asshole
in your business. You aren’t going to know when this is working and when it’s not working.
You wouldn’t know if we were there if we fell over it, because you look for the wrong kind of 
evidence. Stop worrying about whether it’s working. That’s my job. I don’t mean to attack your 
sincerity. Your sincerity is not worth attacking, because it’s worthless.
JAKE
That almost sounded like an apology.
ERHARD  (looking out at the group)
Your sincerity is worthless because you’re still standing when you try to sit down. Now, I’ve got
to live with your standing, not with your trying. This is like a cult of assholes.
JAKE
It sounds like you’re condoning being a real sloppy person about your word. 
ERHARD
That’s what hooked you, isn’t it? 
way-of-being made available by the distinctions of Erhard’s work; 
that way-of-being is the ontological “place” we come from into the 
encounters of our lives. 
Two significant qualifications must be added here. First, we 
have generalized what has been produced by our participation 
in Erhard’s work as “a way of being.” This is of course a gloss on 
an existential phenomenon that defies capture by words. On the 
one hand we sense, in our recent experiences in the seminars of 
Landmark Worldwide, what we might call reverberations that are 
harmonic with our earliest experiences of Erhard’s work. At the 
same time, since each of us is the way of being whose evolution we 
are addressing, we obviously have no place to stand outside that 
evolution from which to address it.
Second, these years have included years when we have 
participated regularly and frequently in Erhard’s work, and years 
when we have not participated at all. Our assessment of this 
process is that our experience of life has been enhanced during 
those periods of participation. Certainly there have been ups 
and downs in every period; but the phenomenon that Erhard 
calls transformation does indeed live in language, and it is our 
experience that regular participation in the conversation keeps 
it alive. And for us, even in the nonparticipating periods, the 
development of the distinctions remains ongoing just in the 
process of life itself.
 Thus the purpose of The Forum is to communicate the 
distinctions repeatedly and at suff icient length such that 
participants can move, as far as possible, from getting them to 
dwelling in them. “Why we’re going on and on down there,” Erhard 
told The Forum leaders during a debriefing session, “is so that 
the distinctions are transferred from something people get to 
something they come from.”
Therefore, we request that readers consider this possibility in 
approaching the ideas in this book. If something we say seems, at 
one moment, to make sense, but upon further reflection doesn’t, 
that may be the way it should be assimilated.
For the senior author, the point which Erhard was making 
at this particular juncture of The Forum—that I present myself as 


=== END OF PAGE 60 ===