=== PAGE 51 ===

Forum Day One: Session Two 
37
MAX
The story is that I joined the service, and went to Vietnam. And my welcome home isn’t what
I expected. What happened was, I went to war and came back alive. Same as any other war, 
there’s...it’s cleared up a lot of issues to look at it as what happened rather than my story in
relation to my coming home.
ERHARD (with emphasis)
Listen up! Vietnam’s a great, great story. Lot of people badly, badly fucked up by the story. Notice 
I didn’t say by what happened? Lots of people profoundly disabled by the story. Lot of freedom
for people to start to distinguish the story from what happened. Thanks Max.
Erhard shifted his tone, calling attention to the process they had been engaged in: they had devel-
oped a number of distinctions as tools for their inquiry.
ERHARD
We’re going to get these tools sharpened up as we proceed. Your questions are useful. You notice 
I’ve done most of what I’ve done out of people’s speaking. This is not a lecture, that’s why we 
call it The Forum. This is a dialogue. My job is to manage the dialogue, not to lecture. I have 
no pipeline to the truth. No one is asking you to believe anything that is said in here. But I’m 
asking you to think about it. That’s diff erent from “reject” or “accept” it. Instead, see what the
world looks like standing in that idea. It doesn’t matter whether you agree or not. To tell the
truth, I’m not that impressed with you yet, to care whether you agree or not. I do want to hear 
what you have to say. I’m not interested in your agreement or approval, or endorsement. I am
interested in you looking at what we’re saying here, to think about it yourself. And the way I’d 
like you to do that is to not judge it or evaluate it to see if it fi ts with what you already think. If 
I say anything that fi ts with what you already think, you shouldn’t be here. You can forget all 
that. Anything I say that fi ts with what you already think: that’s not The Forum. Only what I
say that doesn’t fi t with the stuff  you think, that provokes you to think and see things in a new 
way: that’s what’s valuable. But this isn’t the truth either. I don’t know about the truth. I know 
how to talk so that people have new possibility in their life. If you talk with me, you can bet that 
you’ll walk away with a new possibility in your life.
Now he introduced a new way to address what has already been the subject of the discussion.
ERHARD (continuing)
We’re going to talk about existence. That’s what we’ve been talking about. It’s hard to talk about. 
It’s hard to pick yourself up by your own bootstraps. It’s got to exist to talk about it. If you’re go-
ing to question existence—talk about existence—it’s got to exist to talk about it. The word for a 
concern for existence is ontology. And the reason I bring up that fancy sounding word is I want 
you to know The Forum is not psychological. Most people can’t tell the diff erence. Psychology 
is pervasive in our culture. The structure for interpretation for most people in this culture is psy-
chological. We’re all amateur psychologists. You see everything through a psychological lens.
untransformed audience whom one intends, through one’s rhetorical 
transactions, to transform. Johnstone stated the problem this way:
Heidegger’s entire position is specifically 
committed to the task of awakening phi-
listines from their ontological slumber 
. . . . Das Man [the “they,” the philistine, the 
untransformed] expects to be told in plain En-
glish what he can in fact come to understand 
only by being awakened. But because Heide-
gger’s entire thrust is toward the awakening 
of das Man he cannot reject as a mere philis-
tine the man who fails to understand him. In 
Heidegger’s own terms, he is not successful 
until he has reached the philistine. Hence in 
a sense there are no philistines at all for him. 
(“Rhetoric” 68) 
“
How does one awaken people from a debilitating slumber if 
they resist the process which is necessary for their awakening? 
This question, as we will show, is a central one for the rhetorical 
process of The Forum. ■
“ 
Only what I say that doesn’t fit with stuff  
you think, that provokes you to think and 
see things in a new way: that’s what’s
valuable.


=== END OF PAGE 51 ===