=== PAGE 483 ===

Forum Day Four: Session Three 469
did anything, I just went to school and I loved God and I did what my parents told me to do, and 
it worked. It was kind of like that for a few years. I remember starting third grade, and the fi rst 
day—and I always sat in the front row, I loved to participate—the teacher kept asking all these 
questions and I kept raising my hand, participating and answering the questions and was giving 
all the right answers, and the teacher said “You are going to be my best student.” She went on 
and asked another question, and I gave my answer and I got it wrong. And she looked at me and 
said “That was really stupid.” And that was it! That was it! I just said “Okay! Fine! We’ll do it your 
way” and it’s been that way ever since. And the funny thing is, I really got that’s defi nitely the 
point at which I started to withdraw. It started to become about me. Up to that point there wasn’t 
me, there was just participating and I felt like life was a privilege all the time...
KIPP
There’s something in there, a bit clouded. You might not have seen it. Up until that point there 
was just participation. Not me. When you’re really participating, you’re not even there. You 
know, when you’re really dancing, or really cooking, or really involved in something in life that 
you love—that’s happening, not you. 
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 13)
So when she said “You’re going to be my best student,” or whatever the hell she said to me, well 
I had never thought about that, I never thought that there was a best or a worst or anything like 
that. I started thinking, “Well, I’m going to be the best!” And the next stupid thing out of my 
mouth was the exact wrong thing to say, and I decided that...
KIPP
The next stupid thing out of your mouth was the next thing out of your mouth.
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 13, laughing)
I don’t even remember what it was, and when I got in touch with it today, I was like, “ahh yeah! 
I fi nally got my incident!” And it made absolutely no diff erence to know what it was. None!
KIPP (to applause)
Thank you very much. You know, there’s a story in science called evolution. In that story, 
sometime, a long time ago, there was a little bit of something that became life in the water. It 
started to evolve over eons of time. And then in a moment, a fi sh walked out of the water onto 
land. That’s no longer evolution. It’s the evolution of evolution. That’s transformation. What 
the past four days have been about was providing you a clearing to walk out on the land. And 
the truth is you are not equipped for the land. What the seminars are about is equipping you to 
create a new possibility of growth and learning and extraordinary results on the land. And if 
you apply the rules of the water to see if you’re going to be in a seminar or not, they’re not going 
to work. I invite you to choose to be in a seminar. Don’t concern yourself with which seminar 
to be in. If the seminar reserved for you works, do that. If that night doesn’t work, pick another 
one. Some of you are saying, fi rst I’ve got to digest The Forum. I invite you to consider what 
you digest turns into. You are invited to participate. And you have the right to decline... ...When 


=== END OF PAGE 483 ===