=== PAGE 502 ===

488
SPEAKING BEING
BOBBY 
Well then I don’t get it. I thought that’s what you were talking about. 
ERHARD
That’s not what we’re talking about. You heard me say muscle memory?
BOBBY
That’s how I translated it.
ERHARD
Yeah: Don’t translate me. I speak perfectly what I mean. If you translate it, you don’t get it. 
What I said was, your actions are a correlate of the world as an occurring. Your actions are not a 
product of properties inside you including something called muscle memory. You get that? 
BOBBY
I heard you.
ERHARD
Did you get it?
BOBBY
Well, I’d have to translate it to get it. 
ERHARD
Don’t translate it. Just get it. My actions—the way I act—are a correlate of the world as an 
occurring. That’s what there is to get. I don’t act like I act because I’m stupid, or because I’m 
smart, or because I’m ambitious, or because I got drive, or because I think positively. They’re 
all explanatory principles. They have nothing to do with the source of action. They explain 
action beautifully. You could say that you’re possessed by a certain kind of spirit. That explains 
it perfectly, doesn’t it? Some people are possessed by good spirits, some are possessed by bad 
spirits. Doesn’t that explain action? You don’t like that explanation. But doesn’t it explain 
action? Does it not? What’s the diff erence between that explanation and the explanation that I 
act because of properties inside me? The only diff erence is that one is in vogue and the other is 
now out of vogue. This is a conversation for gaining access to action, not for explaining action. 
Remember I told you the fi rst day? Remember that X thing? This side you get explanation, this 
side you get access to the source of the action. We’re talking about the source of action, not the 
explanation for action. Somebody asks you why you act the way you do, you tell them properties 
because what they’re looking for is understanding. You want something to say about your 
actions, start dwelling in the possibility, the distinctions, that your actions are a correlate of the 
world as an occurring. Is that clear?
BOBBY 
It sounds like reaction, but I know that’s not what you mean.


=== END OF PAGE 502 ===