=== PAGE 348 ===

334
SPEAKING BEING
SARAH
Yeah, well that was it and it was like, it’s “I’m an incompetent parent.”
WES
Someone is willing to say what’s so, rather than give a reason for it or try to explain what it all 
means, deal with the signifi cance of it...
SARAH
And it was real clear to him, “you’re still my mother. You’re my mother!” He said that! And 
in all the discussing about The Forum with people in my life it never occurred to me to talk 
to him.
WES
Yeah, it only occurred to you to talk to yourself. 
SARAH
Oh, I love that one. 
(laughter)
Yeah, he talked to me. He got up early to come talk to me. I left him—maybe I shouldn’t say 
this—we were out of kitty litter. The cat pooped on the carpet and I told him to clean it up and 
go buy more kitty litter. It’s not like I have to do it for him. Yeah.
(applause)
KIPP
Thank you Sarah.
WES  (to the group)
Your whole life has been lived inside of meanings, explanations, reasons, and justifi cations. 
The lowest level in which human beings can live their life... I’m now going to give you a name 
for that. You’re at a place where you can begin to recognize it. Before you were too much in it to 
be able to recognize it. You know, like the fi sh cannot recognize water. The fi sh cannot discern 
water; it’s everywhere. You’re like a fl ying fi sh, for the moment. You jumped out of the water, 
and you looked back to see the water. And when you discern the water, you can take that back 
into the water: That’s possible. It’s an analogy for what is occurring in the room: When you get 
stuck with anything, it sheds a little light on it. So when you jump out of the water and you see 
the water that human beings swim their life in, that water is called reasonableness. 
(pausing)
The reasons for people are more important than the results in their life. Human beings care 
more about reasons than they do about results. And when you ask people about what hap-
pened and why it happened and how come, you get drawn into a conversation for all your rea-
sons. People trade in reasons. They pretend to care about results, but all they really care about 
The call is not something that occurs from time to time in such 
a way that lends itself to inductive empirical study, for “the Fact
of conscience cannot present itself at all” (BT 314). Rather than
T
search for empirical instances, to encounter the call, to “hear” 
it, requires before all else a transformation in the listener, a shift 
from listening away to the “they” to a listening that is altogether 
different.
Dasein fails to hear itself, and listens away 
to the “they”; and this listening-away gets 
broken by the call if that call, in accordance
with its character as such, arouses another 
kind of hearing, which, in relationship to 
the hearing that is lost, has a character in
every way opposite. If in this lost hearing, 
one has been fascinated with the ‘hubbub’
of the manifold ambiguity which idle talk
possesses in its everyday “newness”, then the
call must do its calling without any hubbub
and unambiguously, leaving no foothold for 
curiosity. That which, by calling in this manner,
gives us to understand, is the conscience.
(BT 316
T
)
“
First Dasein must find itself as having failed to hear 
itself, which refers to the dominant self-reflexive trope of The
Forum: being authentic about one’s own inauthenticity, which 
necessitates finding oneself to be inauthentic, that is, to be living 
a life not one’s own, all the while pretending one is. This finding 
of oneself as inauthentic is the lack that the conscience reveals,
the charge of “Guilty!” which the voice of conscience calls Dasein
to own up to. “To be” means to be falling, to have lost touch with 
Being because Being loves to hide. We are left with words that 
become dead, as mere transparent husks. But how can we get 
those husks to come forward and speak Being? ■


=== END OF PAGE 348 ===