=== PAGE 228 ===

214
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
Listen to me. You are exactly the way you are. You’re not the way you were, you are the way you are.
(interrupting Tony)
Have you ever not been the way you are?
TONY
I think I’ve always been the way I am.
ERHARD
And you want to know what? It’s going to be that way.
TONY
I’m just thinking that we’re more powerful now.
ERHARD
You’re more powerful than you were, so what? You’re as powerful as you are. And you’ve 
always been as powerful as you are. That’s part of that illusion, part of the fi x. More powerful. 
I’m going to tell you how all this work started for me. I spent my whole life learning how to 
make it, or making it. I’m smart, and I worked real hard at it. I studied everything and did 
everything. And then one day I was sitting in the car, and I realized I was never going to make 
it. I looked back at my life, and it was a joke. I spent thirty-four years of my life climbing a 
ladder, got to the top, and found that the ladder didn’t go to the top of the wall. I looked at all 
the other ladders and saw that they don’t go over the wall either. 
TONY
Why do they have to go up?
ERHARD
That’s the way being human is: climbing ladders that don’t go over the wall. That’s the joke. 
That’s what there is to get in here. You are not going to make it. You know what your life is 
about? You’re not going to make it. Whatever it’s about. I was real sad when I found that out, 
that I wasn’t going to make it. I’d spent thirty-four years trying, thirty-four years of anguish, 
thirty-four years of trying to look good. Terrible not to make it. I realized I was never going to be 
intelligent enough or good enough, honest enough or contribute enough, anything enough. 
TONY 
Is it bullshit to think you can make a diff erence? 
ERHARD
You make a diff erence if you do, you don’t if you don’t. And if you set up “making a diff erence” 
as over the wall, you’ll never get over the wall. You’re making “making a diff erence” the Holy 
Grail. No matter what you pick out, if you come through The Forum again three years later 
you’ll see it’s a joke. If you make it the Holy Grail, it’ll turn into a fucking joke.


=== END OF PAGE 228 ===