=== PAGE 506 ===

492
SPEAKING BEING
behavior by telling myself to alter my behavior. I now see I can alter my behavior by altering the 
way the world occurs for me. How do I gain access to the occurring?”
BECKY
Got it. Thanks.
ERHARD (to the last standing participant)
This better be really fucking original.
(laughter)
MIKE (the participant who had the “stupid” racket)
I don’t understand. You threw a ball over there, with the gentleman standing over here. He can’t 
catch it.
ERHARD
No. You say he can’t catch it. There are athletes who could catch that ball. If that was an ape, 
the ape would have caught it. The ball is catchable, but the ball occurs as uncatchable. How 
close does the ball have to be to you to be catchable?
MIKE
It depends on how fast the ball is coming...
ERHARD
At a given speed, how close does it have to be?
MIKE
A ball at a given speed?
ERHARD
Yeah, how close does it have to be to be catchable?
MIKE
I have to be able to run to it in time in order to be able to catch it.
ERHARD
And that depends on how fast the ball is moving.
MIKE
Correct.
ERHARD
Very good. And how fast the ball is moving is not determined by a radar gun. It’s determined by 
the speed the ball occurs for you. Guys who play baseball for a living, play baseball with big, fat, 
Techne
 To develop the perspective on technology and the danger posed 
by the technological understanding of Being, Heidegger turns, 
as he oft en does, to etymology in order to explore the historical 
meanings deeply embedded in our language. “In the word, 
in language, things first come to be and are,” he says (IM 15). 
Therefore the way the world occurs for us today can be traced to 
the way it was originally understood and put into language by the 
first Western thinkers, the pre-Socratics, who lived at a time when 
the increasing complexity of phenomena emerging from the flux 
required the development of a deeper understanding of things. 
In their response to this challenge, so Heidegger’s account 
runs, the Greeks unavoidably set a direction for Western thinking; 
and from that meaningful beginning, the “play of Being”—the 
evolution of human thinking and thus of human Being—can 
be traced through history, culminating in our current view of 
ourselves and our world. “What is Greek,” says Heidegger, “is the 
dawn of that destiny in which Being illuminates itself in beings, 
and so propounds a certain essence of man; that essence unfolds 
as something fateful . . .” (EGT 25).
A central artifact in this archaeology of language is the Greek 
word techne. Heidegger notes that “the Greeks, who knew quite a 
bit about works of art, use the same word techne for craft  and art 
and call the craft sman and the artist by the same name: technites” 
(PLT 59). Over time, techne came to mean the activities of the 
craft sman, primarily the work of making things; so its subsequent 
evolution as a term for the functioning of technical instruments is 
not surprising. But Heidegger asserts that this meaning is “oblique 
and superficial,” and that the word techne “never means a kind of 
practical performance. The word techne denotes rather a mode of 
knowing” (PLT 59). 
But it is knowing in a unique mode: techne is knowing that 
creates what is known. It reveals things by bringing them forth for 
the first time, a stage in the creative process that precedes the 
act of making. When a house or a ship is to be built, it is revealed 
before it is produced: 
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 506 ===