=== PAGE 538 ===

524
SPEAKING BEING
Kipp then introduced himself to the visitors (those who have completed The Forum sometime in the 
past and who had shared that experience with those taking the current Forum), as well as Wes, and 
a long, standing ovation ensued. 
KIPP
Thank you! I’d like to give some of you in The Forum an opportunity to say something to the 
people who came in to complete The Forum with us tonight.
Kipp proceeded to select a participant to stand and share, and selected new participants who had 
raised their hands as soon as one fi nished speaking.
SALLY (moved)
Thank you Roger, very very much, for sticking with me and being quite a person, a big person. 
And your contributions to me, I value them, they are very important. This experience has 
allowed me to get off  it. Quite a bit. And you know I’m on it. That’s a lot. That’s a lot. Now I 
won’t have to spend so much time defending myself. I know there’s nothing to be afraid of. 
Thanks!
KIPP (to applause)
Well done. Thank you!
CIARLA
Ken introduced me to The Forum about fi ve years ago, and at that time I didn’t take the 
opportunity like I’m doing now. Thank you very much for having me participate in this work, 
and I want you to know that I love you. I’m looking very much forward—we just got engaged 
a couple months ago—and I’m very much looking forward to the rest of our lives together. 
Thanks!
KIPP (to applause)
Thank you!
PAUL
There are three woman in my life who are here, and I am madly in love with each of them: 
my mother, my future mother-in-law, and my fi ancée. These three women stand for me, no 
matter what. They have a commitment to me being great, and I love them for it. I can say out 
of this work, and I’ve been participating for a while, I know my relationship with Becky will 
last forever out of just us saying so. Not out of how I feel, because I don’t feel like it a lot. It’s 
really just out of our commitment, and our stand together, the possibility of this work and the 
diff erence we can make, just like giving it away. And I just really want to say to you three that I 
love you, and thanks!
KIPP (to applause)
Very nice!


=== END OF PAGE 538 ===