=== PAGE 107 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session One 
93
(referring to Sienna)
What she said, I felt I could identify with and so I felt that I had nothing to contribute. But for
me to really get something out of being here, I really need to say it out loud. I seem to have the 
answer for myself and everyone, and I’m so busy looking good that I’m not getting my..., that
having all the answers has killed off  the possibility in my life.
WES
Like maybe you’ve killed your life.
PHOEBE
Yeah, that I’m so smart and that I’ve got it so fi gured out, that I have the answer and no possi-
bility. And I noticed when we did our homework, last night and this morning, that all that kept
coming up was lots of answers and no new stuff , which is what I think I got out of yesterday,
the possibilities of what my life could be about. That’s what I don’t have is possibility in my life.
WES
Got it. Great. Thanks.
(another participant stands)
ROSS
I’ve been waiting for the right time to get up here and say something profound and so this is the
right time, but it isn’t anything profound.
WES
The wrong time is when it is profound, so you don’t have to worry about it. How many are wait-
ing for something signifi cant, profound, before you’re going to get up to share?
(many raising their hands)
We don’t want your crummy shares! If you really listen you’ll fi nd that the most powerful shares 
are some of the simplest and dealing with the most ordinary aspects of our life. From the power
and insight of The Forum to shed light on the ordinary aspects of our life, you’ll fi nd some of 
the most powerful things you’ve listened to. Thanks for acknowledging that.
ROSS
What happened for me yesterday and last night and I’m convinced, also while I was sleeping,
was just the continuous looking again at all the beliefs, a lot of the things that I’ve been work-
ing on in this area, and opening up diff erent possibilities for it, and starting really, one of the 
reasons why I came to The Forum was that I wanted to take a look at what the barriers were for
my success. I’ve been successful in the past, I’ve been able to create the things that I’ve wanted,
and then they slipped away, for whatever reason, and I really want to take a look at what those
barriers were and what’s been happening. All yesterday and last night, and this morning is, let’s 
take a look at the distinctions. They’re really starting to separate. I fi nd that I spend a lot of time
and energy in the story, and very little time dealing with what’s happening.
as well as the Interval “Dasein: Meaning and Mineness” at the end
of Session Two, Day One). A dog can be a dog only for a human
being; only for a human can a sunset be beautiful. But also among
the entities freed by Dasein to be in the world are other human
beings—entities which are “like the very Dasein which frees them,
in that they are there too, and there with it” (BT 154). 
T
These terms—with and too—are to be understood existential-
ly. That is, Being-there-too does not mean merely that the Others
are present-at-hand in the world, available to be encountered. 
Heidegger is not describing a situation in which beings are located 
alongside each other in world space; rather he is distinguishing
integral elements of the beings themselves. Withness is a part of 
Dasein’s Being—my own Dasein, and the Dasein of Others. The 
“too,” says Heidegger, means a “sameness of Being” (BT 154).
T
Heidegger makes precise use of hyphenation in languaging 
the ontological world-structure he is proposing. Early on in Being
and Time, he specifies that Things—substances, equipment,
objects of nature—are within the world, a location-relationship 
that he indicates by the absence of hyphenation (BT 91). Here, he
T
posits a further specification:
“
  Thus Dasein’s world frees entities which are 
not only quite distinct from equipment and 
Things, but which also—in accordance with
their kind of being as Dasein themselves—are
‘in’ the world in which they are at the same 
time encountered within-the-world, and are 
‘in’ it by way of Being-in-the-world. . . . So if 
one would want to identify the world in gen-
eral with entities within-the-world, one would 
have to say that Dasein too is ‘world.’ (BT 154)
T
So because Dasein—mine and the Others’—are in-the-world exis-
tentially, we can be encountered “in” the world environmentally. 
Once again, we call attention to the deeply reflexive nature
of Heidegger’s ontological distinctions. His languaging repeatedly
turns thinking back upon itself, since his goal is to have us bend
back to see ourselves from a new perspective.


=== END OF PAGE 107 ===