=== PAGE 61 ===

Forum Day One: Session Two
47
JAKE
Yep.
ERHARD
It sounded like I was attacking one of your sacred beliefs. You couldn’t tolerate being a guy who
said he would do it and didn’t do it. You couldn’t listen to the rest of what I said, and got con-
fused. You can’t live with being a guy who doesn’t keep his word.
JAKE 
I think I have good reasons for not doing it.
ERHARD
I didn’t say it wasn’t a valid story. I love everybody’s story. But you can’t ask about it, “true” or 
“false”? Is it really true that you couldn’t do it? What’s true is that you
t
didn’t do it. Sometimes a
t
cigar is just a cigar, as Freud said. Listen, you can’t be with that. You can’t be with the possibility 
of not being your word. And you know what? Something happened, when you were a kid, and 
you couldn’t be that anymore.
JAKE
This is something I value.
ERHARD
I know. You’re nutty about it.
JAKE
Yes I am a nut about it.
ERHARD
And anything you’re nutty about you have no freedom with.
JAKE
What’s the value in being two hours late just because you want to be two hours late?
ERHARD
I never said anything like that. You said that. You’re so nutty you’re hearing voices. That’s part 
metaphorical and part literal.
JAKE
No, somebody did say that.
MARY
I said that, but I didn’t say I wouldn’t try.
someone who keeps my word, whereas in reality I keep my word 
when I cannot justify not keeping it—wavers for me as I consider 
it. I see its validity: I do keep my promises and adhere to my 
agreements, but only until I see some overriding justification for 
breaking them. I obey most laws—my social contracts—except 
for certain laws which I justify not keeping: for example, I cannot 
personally justify cheating on my income tax returns, but I oft en 
justify exceeding the speed limit. The classic ethical dilemma—
whether one would tell an axe murderer the “truth” about the 
location of his innocent quarry—can be seen as a variation of this 
same point: I tell the truth until I can justify not telling it.
And yet I notice my resistance to accepting this when it is 
put so baldly. Protestations of my “honesty” leap to mind: it is 
not that I keep my word depending on how I feel about it, it is 
that I always keep my word except when there is some overriding 
reason not to. But—and here is the point Erhard is driving 
toward—isn’t that simply the same “what happened” with a 
diff erent “story” attached to it? Isn’t it true that I either keep my 
word or I don’t, and then I add a story, a justification of some 
nature for whichever action I take? Doesn’t the “what happened” 
remain unaltered, regardless of the explanation or justification I 
attach to the event?  ■


=== END OF PAGE 61 ===