=== PAGE 414 ===

400
SPEAKING BEING
And they never get that this “understanding it,” and “analyzing it,” and this “studying it,” has only 
one problem to it: They’ve still got “it.” So, how to let the problem go? Have it disappear? How to
let the problem disappear? That’s where the discussion is headed. Wake up! We’re coming to a good
part. I promise. Well, if problems occur in languaging, and the specifi c languaging that problems
occur in is “shouldn’t be,” how about trying out a new languaging? How about creating? You know 
this is already given, so you’ll have to confront it ongoingly. Your racket will continue on after The 
Forum, I promise. And its love for problems will continue on after The Forum, I promise. And your 
fascination with problems stuck to your racket will continue on after The Forum, I promise. But 
here’s the possibility in what I am saying. You can confront it: In the presence of it, you can take 
your problem, and transform it by confronting the box it already comes in, and allowing a new 
box—putting it into a new box—intentionally putting it into a new box. So I’m going to give you a 
name of a new box you could put your problem in. This is not the truth. Problems “shouldn’t be”?
Here’s the question you have to confront: Who made you the judge? God’s happy, what’s your prob-
lem? Who made you the judge, the ultimate decider of what shouldn’t be in life? Not a lot of power 
in that. So try this one on. Put a new conversation around the actual problems that you’ve got, like a 
possibility. And the conversation I’m inviting you to put around them is: In life there are problems. 
Wes erased “shouldn’t be” and wrote “in life there are problems” over the top of the box with the word 
“problems” inside it.
WES (continuing)
Simple enough. In life there are problems. Not: Life’s about no problems. When problems
shouldn’t be, the conclusion is that a great life is a life without problems. That’s nonsense! A life 
without problems is a lousy life. It’s a stinky life. You want a life without problems? We have a 
little operation we can perform on you; you would have to do it in Mexico, though. We’ll remove 
all your internal organs and suspend you in tepid water. That’s a life without problems. Power-
ful people are judged by their problems. The problem with you is, your problems are small and
crappy—and the same ones over and over. You’re boring. She’s been dealing with this crummy 
thesis for nine years. Imagine listening to her for nine years about it?
(laughter)r
She should get some big problems and she’ll fi nish the darn thing. And then take on a job that’s 
a real problem for her, and do great with that until she takes on more responsibility, runs a uni-
versity and has a lot of problems. Then you’d be interesting to talk to. That’s the problem. You’re
resisting the very thing that gives life its whole excitement—problems—because they “shouldn’t
be.” So the way to transform that is to confront each of your problems and the whole distinction 
“problem” and put them in a box called “in life there are problems.” Okay. Any questions? Any 
“yeah but”s and “how about”s?
DONALD
So I take a problem, in my case, say, my weight. And in life there are problems. I’ve got a prob-
lem that I’m sixty pounds more than I want to be, or sixty pounds more than healthy.
As we have shown elsewhere, this is the clearing that Heidegger 
saw manifested in the thinking of the pre-Socratics, the site of the 
primal struggle by which they brought Being to stand, thereby
brought forth the world, and won the clearing for the emergence 
of truth. A human being is a clearing in the world for things to be
the things they are.
For both Heidegger and Erhard, this is a central point: gener-
ative thinking, thinking that wants to unconceal the truth of Being 
and thereby light beings, can do so only if there is first created a
clearing for the lighting: “Light can stream into the clearing,” says
Heidegger; but light itself never creates the clearing. “Rather, light 
presupposes it” (“EP&TT” in BW 442). According to the scholar 
W
William Lovitt, Heidegger has expressed a preference that the da 
in Da-sein, be translated as openness, rather than the traditional 
there (Intro to QCT, xxxv). A human being is fundamentally
T
Being-openness. 
 “The lumen naturale,” says Heidegger, “the light of reason,
throws light only on the open” (“EP&TT” in BW 443). But it is im-
W
portant to note that while Dasein is the clearing for the light, Dasein 
is the light, as well. In Being and Time, Heidegger pointed out that 
the figurative expression, lumen naturale, denotes the existen-
tial-ontological structure of Dasein itself. The light is a constituent 
of Dasein, and begins to shine when Dasein “is in such a way as to 
be its ‘there’” (BT 171). In becoming the opening of the clearing, we 
T
become simultaneously the light which illuminates the clearing. 
The dialogue of The Forum may be seen as a process for clear-
ing the opening that The Forum participants are, thereby enabling
them to know themselves as a “there” for the lighting of Being.
The first step in the process is the deconstruction of participants’ 
normative subjectivities, the primal struggle that responds to the
first question of The Forum: What is the Being of human beings? 
This clears the opening for the second question: What is the possi-
bility of Being for human beings? It is through this second question
that the clearing is lighted. ■
WES (continuing; laughter)


=== END OF PAGE 414 ===