=== PAGE 97 ===

Forum Day One: Session Five 
83
PATRICIA
Three.
ERHARD
Good. We’re going to leave you at three.
(returning to her seat as the group applauded) 
For how many people in the room is something starting to move?
(many hands raising) 
For how many people in the room is nothing starting to move?
(more hands) 
How many people are at maybe, can’t tell? 
(still more hands) 
You know where you should be? Where you are?
(pausing)
I’m going to give you an assignment which will determine how much you get 
out of The Forum. I got your money. I can’t lose. You can lose. The point is: 
you have a chance to enhance what you get out of here. Bring your life in here
tomorrow. Don’t bring the face you brought today—the “I’ve got it all togeth-
er” face. Bring in the face that’s authentic about your own inauthenticity. 
What has it cost you in life to collapse those domains? What you’re bringing in 
tomorrow is your inauthenticity. 
(pausing)
We didn’t talk about looking good today, did we? We’re going to do it in 
thirty seconds. You have a major concern for looking good. For some people
looking bad is looking good. So when you come in tomorrow, be able to
talk about where in your life are you used by looking good. Looking good
owns your life. 
(pausing)
The four-day format of this Forum is both an asset and a liability. The 
liability is that there aren’t five days between the weekends for you to be 
back in your lives and talk about your experience. You have got to commu-
nicate what’s happening for you here. You have got to be articulate in this
conversation. Tonight you’ve got to talk about this to other people. You’ve
got to begin to be able to generate the conversation. You’ve got to be able to 
speak this. You don’t have to explain it. You want to be in communication
about this like an experience, like a presence. I know a lot of people who
understand this and don’t live it.
PARTICIPANT
It is very late and I am tired.
PATRICIA
A four. 
ERHARD
Do you know why you are tired? Notice I didn’t ask you “do you think you
k
know why?” I asked if you know why you’re tired.
PATRICIA
No. 
ERHARD
What’s the relationship between the reasons you have for being tired and 
being tired? There isn’t any. The reasons are valid. In other words, in the world
of reasons every reason you have is a valid reason. You don’t have any nutty 
reasons.
(turning to the group and speaking in a loud voice)
There’s no such thing as tired! That’s a concept!
(back to Patricia)
Where in your body are you experiencing what you used to call being tired? 
PATRICIA
My arms.
ERHARD
And where else in your body?
As Erhard repeated the question, she responded each time by identifying a tired 
area of her body.
ERHARD
Nothing much conceptual about this, is there? It’s all presence.
PATRICIA
My arms are still tired.
ERHARD
For a while there you were really looking. But then you got to thinking 
about it. Whenever you say “still” or “also”... See how easy it is to collapse 
the domains?
(continuing to question her)
You were at a four when you started this. Where are you now?


=== END OF PAGE 97 ===