=== PAGE 300 ===

286
SPEAKING BEING
KEVIN
But I don’t. 
KIPP
That’s right. I didn’t say to. I’m not manipulating you into trusting. I’m not advocating it...
ERHARD
He’s not going to get that because he still doesn’t get the distinction between assertion and 
declaration. Kevin, did you know that you did your whole number in your response to Kipp? 
You did “stingy”; you did “don’t risk”; you did “nobody does it right.”
KEVIN
Yeah.
ERHARD
Like counting down. That was totally automatic.
KEVIN
Yeah.
ERHARD
Not one thing you said had a shred of intelligence in it. I want you to listen to what I’m saying. 
It was not an expression of your intelligence. It was not an expression of your common sense. It 
was an expression of your act—limited completely to your act. You had no choice in the matter. 
It was not some product of an intelligent choice or a commonsensical choice.
KEVIN
I’ll accept that.
WES
So you got the assignment?
KEVIN
Yes.
WES
I just want to acknowledge your willingness to be in this conversation.
KEVIN
I just wanted to say to everyone else in the auditorium, that I’m safe to be around. It’s not 
that bad.
“
And where have we leapt? Perhaps into an 
abyss? No! Rather, onto some firm soil. Some? 
No! But on that soil upon which we live and 
die, if we are honest with ourselves. A curious, 
indeed unearthly thing that we must first leap 
onto the soil on which we really stand. (WCT 41,
T
emphasis added)
In distinguishing the leap, Heidegger continues the reflexivity that 
characterizes his thought: we leap to where we already are.
In Being and Time, he says that Dasein “is existentially that 
which, in its potentiality-for-Being, it is not yet. . . .  [O] nly because 
it is what it becomes (or alternatively, does not become), can it say 
to itself ‘Become what you are’ and say this with understanding” 
(BT 185–186). Scholar Joan Stambaugh calls this movement of 
thinking an “ongoing reaching that belongs to what it reaches” 
(ID 14).
As we have noted elsewhere, such reflexivity is central to the 
thinking of Zen, as Erhard has observed: “In Zen, one is working 
toward enlightenment from and in a context of already being 
enlightened” (Bartley 125). ■


=== END OF PAGE 300 ===