=== PAGE 433 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
419
WES
Right: With this person and with that person...
ILLAINA
Yes.
WES
“I want attention from him but he’s not giving me any attention,” and so you develop a whole 
story about what kind of person he is, and she’s had this problem before with other people, and 
none of it should be, it’s all wrong and she’s less-than, and you’re into this whole crummy story 
and somebody’s wrong. And somebody’s right. Of course she’s right and something else is wrong.
ILLIANA
From that I developed asking attention in diff erent ways.
WES
Right: as a solution. But they never really work, do they?
ILLIANA
No. Until today. I don’t get what I want.
WES
Yeah.
ILLIANA
Now, you said to bring up the problem, okay? The problem that I came up with was... I’m deal-
ing now in my life with a... working with a new company, trying to do something that I don’t
believe I can do. And what I really want is their attention, to know that I can do it. 
WES
Yeah, and that’ll make everything lousy, with no satisfaction. She’s doing it to get attention, not to
produce results. There will be no accomplishment, and she’ll never get enough attention, so she’ll
be driven, and it’s a racket. And she’ll also conclude about it that it shouldn’t be. The whole situation
“shouldn’t be,” and you shouldn’t be this way. However it turns out, “it shouldn’t be.” And you’ll have
a problem again, and that shouldn’t be. And so now you can stand in empty and meaningless and see
the absurdity of that. The absurdity of the problem called “needing attention.” You want attention?
ILLIANA
Yeah.
WES
Great. Take what you get and call that “attention.” That would be a possibility, right? From 
empty and meaningless?
Fact One
Our actions from moment to moment are generally consistent with
t
our way of being in those moments.  This is true for any way of be-
ing, such as annoyed, or sad, or loving, and the like.  For example,
when we are being angry we are also likely to find ourselves acting
angrily, and when we are being confident we are likely to be acting 
confidently.  It is clear that when we are being angry, or confident, 
or annoyed, or sad or loving, our actions are likely to be consistent
with that way of being.
  Note that we have said that our actions are virtually always 
consistent with our 
t
way of being (what is going on with us inter-
nally).  And that is all that can be verified in our experience (in our 
consciousness).  We can have theories about some additional con-
nection or relation between our way of being and our actions, but
there is no proof (evidence) of any further connection or relation
between our way of being and our way of acting other than that
they are consistent with each other. 
t
However, we must note that most people go through life and 
act in life as though what is going on with them internally (some 
combination of their mental state, emotional state, bodily state,
and their thoughts and memories) causes their actions.  But there 
is no scientific evidence for believing in such a causal connection. 
All we can say about the relationship between our way of being 
and acting is that they are mutually arising or co-arising.  In fact,
during the course we will present neuroscience research (Clancey 
1993; Libet 1999; Hawkins 2004; Soon 2008; Haggard 2009; Kandel
2009; Bode 2011; Wolpert 2011; Zimmer 2013 and Buckner 2013) 
that is contrary to the belief that what is going on with you inter-
nally causes your actions.  For now, the following quotes from
neuroscientist Sam Harris (2012) summarize in everyday lan-
guage the research about the connection between what is going
on with you internally (in this case, your decision or intention) and
y
your action:


=== END OF PAGE 433 ===