=== PAGE 199 ===

Forum Day Three: Session One
185
KIPP (covering his head with a tissue; laughter)
This is what you’ve been calling you.
XAVIER
I see the payoff s and the costs, but now what?
KIPP
Two more days, that’s what.
Xavier sat down looking considerably lighter than when he had stood up. Another participant, Edna, 
stood next.
EDNA
When I came in here I had a bag of negatives with me.
KIPP
“A bag of negatives” is a description. 
EDNA
I didn’t want to be here. I have six children and grandchildren in this Forum. I thought we were 
all going to do The Forum together. It didn’t take me long to realize that they were going to do 
their Forum and I was going to do my Forum. I kept looking for where in the room my family 
was. At one point, I saw my son walking toward the door. I feared for his and my looking good. I 
realized how much looking good had been running my life. It’s not anymore. 
KIPP
It is anymore. It is there. But you’ve got some choice now in how it uses you.
 
(to the group)
What you’re listening to is a mother whose children became trophies.
ERHARD
Like all mothers: you lose yourself. You become your children. Let me tell you something: you 
have very little to do with the way your children grow up. Look at yourself. You did it the way 
you wanted to do it. But everyone has bullshit about “They made me.” Kids like to eat. “If you 
want to eat in this house, do this and this and this. If you don’t want to eat, do something else.” 
I told my son, “I don’t feed you because I love you. It’s against the law not to feed you.” You 
lose yourself and become your children. The single most important thing you have to give your 
children is your own well-being, and make sure they don’t get in the way. They may not use it 
wisely, but your self is what you’ve got to give them. The one thing I could never get away from 
with my mother was who she was. But I forgot everything she told me.
EDNA
They didn’t know the reason for me wanting them to look good: so that I would look good.
AWAKENING ATTUNEMENTS
Werner Erhard has consistently denied that his work is 
appropriately characterized by the term philosophy. But he
has issued this denial in a cultural context where philosophy is 
generally regarded as a purely academic pursuit, in which one
studies the thinking of great thinkers in order to gain knowledge 
and perhaps thereby to attain wisdom. 
The people who direct this study are professors of philosophy, 
but are rarely considered publicly to be themselves philosophers; 
our culture has no clear or off icial requirements for that desig-
nation. The academic process generally entails learning about
philosophy, not doing philosophy. This is not necessarily the
aim of the professors, but arises from the constricting assump-
tions of the current paradigm that structures the processes of 
acquiring knowledge within academic settings. Given this way of 
understanding the term “philosophy,” it clearly does not describe 
Erhard’s methodology. 
But certainly, as Erhard has acknowledged, his work does 
address many of the concerns of philosophy (“The Heart of the
Matter”), concerns that are likewise central in the work of Martin
Heidegger, who is considered as off icial a “philosopher” as anyone 
from the twentieth century. In Germany during the prime of his
career, between 1920 and the 1960s, Heidegger was immersed 
in a culture that revered both the academic system itself and in
particular the academic discipline of philosophy. In responding to
this opportunity, he rose to pre-eminence as an academic and as a 
philosopher. (Please see Michael E. Zimmerman’s Aft erword to this 


=== END OF PAGE 199 ===