=== PAGE 397 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
383
to that was: “Oh we have to do this again? I have to go back to when I was six-years-old?” But it
didn’t take very long for me to see that that’s where I was, for a long time. And I always have a
reason for why I’m not there. But I really am there. So it goes back to an incident that happened, 
not when I was six, but when I was like twelve or thirteen, and I just wasn’t there for my sister. I
just wasn’t there and I had wonderful reasons for it. The best reasons. I was always the best kid, 
the best sister; so I never got anything for it: I just wasn’t there.
KIPP
You lived inside a story called “I’m the best kid,” which gave you a justifi cation for anything that 
happened that was inconsistent with that.  
ANABETH
Right. So yesterday, I called my son, who is twenty-one. I have four children, but he’s the only 
one I called because I got that he could listen to it, because he’s had an experience somewhat 
like The Forum.
KIPP
This is another reason by the way. More crap, right?
ANABETH
The reason I called Johnny?
KIPP
“Well, you know Johnny, he’s like that.”
ANABETH
No, no, no. That’s not it.
KIPP
Okay.
ANABETH
I called Johnny because I wanted to tell him that I was proud of him. And when I couldn’t reach
him, I thought well, “I’ll call one of my other kids.”
KIPP
Is it true that you couldn’t reach him or that you didn’t reach him?
ANABETH
I did not reach him. He was not on the other end of the phone call. He was out. So I called another 
number where he was supposed to be, and he was out at that number too. So I just kept calling
all day long until I fi nally got him woken up to come to the phone. I called him: I could tell him
how proud I was of him, and for calling me and telling me about how he learned about his act,
If your listening is that somebody doesn’t like
you, everything they say is an expression of not
liking you [Aletheia 3]. If we pushed Jodie hard 
enough she could go back and remember that
“oh yeah, one of them was trying to be nice to
me once” [Aletheia 2]. 
“
Aletheia 2, then, is the meaningfulness we attend to, where some-
thing or someone occurs as meaningful in some way to us, which
in turn gives us our way to be with that something or someone.
Forgetting the as locks us into the fallenness of Aletheia 3: as
becomes is. Remembering the as transforms the is. This is the work
of The Forum: the disclosure of truth as unconcealment, and in the
clearing granted by Nothing the generation of a new possibility of 
Being for human beings becomes available. ■


=== END OF PAGE 397 ===