=== PAGE 58 ===

44
SPEAKING BEING
MARY
No, I do what I do.
ERHARD
You say, “Hey Werner, I’m going to meet you tomorrow at noon...”
MARY
And I’ll get there at two.
ERHARD
But you don’t say, “But Werner, I may show up and I may not.”
MARY
No.
ERHARD
That’s the inauthenticity. If you went around saying to people, “Look, I’ll give my word, and
maybe I’ll keep it and maybe I won’t.” Nothing inauthentic about that—that’s quite straight.
MARY
And I’m right about that.
ERHARD
We’ll discuss more about that later. You get what I mean about that being inauthentic? Anybody 
who can’t see that?
JAKE
I make the best eff ort to... I don’t understand.
ERHARD
Let me tell you how I listen. I just told you that one and one equals two. And I asked you if you 
got that, and you said you’re confused. So I think you’ve got something going on in this area.
JAKE
That’s one of the reasons why I raised my hand.
ERHARD
You’re not confused; you’ve got something going on.
JAKE
I’ve got something going on.
Getting It and Losing It
The Forum content is communicated through the gradual 
development of a series of distinctions. These distinctions off er 
access to a certain way of being; they are ontological clearings, 
contexts of meaning. They shape the way the circumstances of 
life occur so that a new way of being with those circumstances 
arises naturally. The new way of being becomes a possibility when 
the distinction is “gotten”—in Heideggerian terms, in a moment 
of Augenblick, or ontological insight. Thus the purpose of The 
Forum is to have participants “get” the distinctions deeply enough 
during the course of the four days that they leave The Forum 
dwelling in those distinctions. As Erhard told The Forum leaders 
during a debriefing, “What makes a diff erence is that there is a 
conversation generated that distinguishes the distinction, and that 
they’re dwelling in the conversation,” that is, they are “used by” 
the distinction rather than caught up trying to remember a piece of 
information as a precondition to being able to apply it.


=== END OF PAGE 58 ===