=== PAGE 537 ===

Forum Day Four: Session Three 523
my experience in church. But let me tell you something: I’ve never had the kind of experience 
with church like I’ve had at the service I’m inviting you to. It’s extraordinary. Whatever your 
experience has been, I promise this is worth doing, and I’m not hustling you to go to church, or 
I am, whatever you like. The last thing for me: Be at one of the seven evening sessions and get 
all that shit out of your head about my reasons for asking you. The other thing is that there is 
a lot of talk about me, and most of it is bullshit. I’m not worth all that talk, but there are some 
things I am worth.
Here Erhard told a story about an “award” he had received from a professor of English at the 
University of New Delhi—a Professor Manmohan—who had traveled with him in India. Normally, 
Manmohan was very quiet. But when he’d talk with Erhard about Erhard’s work, he’d always ask 
when Erhard was going to bring it to India.
ERHARD
Eventually we did do the work in India, and Manmohan had participated in the fi rst program 
we did. One of the things he got, he got the possibility of an extraordinary relationship with 
his father. Manmohan had a good relationship with his father, but particularly in the Indian 
culture, it doesn’t matter how old you are, you are always your father’s son. Manmohan took the 
train back to his father’s village and they sat and talked for hours, and they cried together, and 
everything was wonderful, and opened up, and all that stuff . And Manmohan said, “Werner, my 
father asked me ‘Son, what happened to you?’ And he told him about the work, and his father 
said, ‘Oh, I understand, son: you found a guru.’” By the way, “you found a guru” is not an insult 
in Indian culture. In this country it’s an insult. You’re in good shape if you found your guru in 
India. Manmohan said to me, “You know Werner, I had to think about it, because I had just 
fi nished being really straight with my father, and I really wanted to be straight with him and 
answer his question. I told my father ‘No, father, I didn’t fi nd a guru. I found a friend.’” That’s 
the most important award I’ve ever gotten. It’s the only one I want. And what I can promise you 
is that I am your friend and I will always be here for you. I’ll always be for the possibility you 
are, and if I never see you again, I’ll still be your friend for the rest of our time. So, if somebody 
asks you: “You went to The Forum with Werner, who’s he?” You say “He’s a friend of mine” and 
you’ll be telling them the truth. Thank you very much, and good night.
Erhard left the room through the opening in the curtains at the back of the platform, to a standing 
ovation. 
KIPP (walking up onto the platform)
Okay. On we go, into the wee hours of the morning! Does anybody want to go home?
(cheers of “no”)
Okay. Let’s welcome the visitors here in the room.
(applause)


=== END OF PAGE 537 ===