=== PAGE 370 ===

356
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
Right: and a signifi cant racket for you. What you have to get to is that it’s empty and meaning-
less. Underneath your racket is all empty and meaningless. If I take away liking yourself and 
not liking yourself, what are you left with? Nothing. There’s where we want to leave you: with 
nothing. Is that clearer?
JOYCE
Yeah, but I don’t want to be left with nothing.
ERHARD
I know, because there’s a payoff  in not liking yourself. You’re getting something out of it. You’re 
a racketeer. You’re in it for the payoff . 
JOYCE
Yes, I am. 
ERHARD
Yeah. You like the payoff , be my guest.
JOYCE
No I don’t like it.
ERHARD
Then cut it out. And if you can’t cut it out, where you need to get to is that underneath the 
racket is empty and meaningless. You have to see that your racket’s a joke. You’re not going to 
get rid of your racket, ever. You get rid of one, you’ll fi nd another one under that. It’s endless. 
It’s rackets all the way down, I told you. It’s like peeling an onion. You take off  one racket, you 
get another racket. You take off  another racket, you get another racket. You know what’s at the 
center of an onion? Nothing. When you pull the last layer off , what’s left? Nothing. Sorry for the 
cheap metaphor. Life is empty and meaningless and it doesn’t mean anything that life is empty 
and meaningless. Did you get it? I didn’t say “did you feel good?” I said “did you get it?”
JOYCE
Life is empty and meaningless that life is empty and meaningless means nothing.
ERHARD
No. It’s life is empty and meaningless and that doesn’t mean anything. Don’t give any meaning 
to that. See, you’re trying to make that mean something. Like, “Well, then I shouldn’t have to 
bother!” No. It doesn’t mean anything; you can’t make meaning out of it, otherwise you destroy 
it. And as soon as you do make it mean something you take the truth power out of it; you take 
the truth value out of it. Then it becomes some stupid platitude that you bother people with. 
“Don’t you know that life is empty and meaningless?” People don’t want to hear that shit. 


=== END OF PAGE 370 ===