=== PAGE 427 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
413
WES (indicating both independent clauses of the sentence on the board)
These two are not equal and opposite forces: That’s the lie. It’s possible to have both of those and
no confl ict. They are not inherently confl icting. The “but” makes them confl icting. So, we change
“but” to “and.” If we say, “I want to go to the beach and I don’t have time,” we’d be telling the 
truth about the two forces operating on us. “I want to go to the beach,” and “I don’t have time.” 
But is there a problem? Does “I want to go to the beach and I don’t have time” occur as a problem? 
GRACE
Yes, it occurs as a problem because you’re dealing with two opposing forces.
WES
No, they are not opposing.
GRACE
They’re separate and distinct.
WES
You’re the one who said so a moment ago.
GRACE
Right. What next?
WES
So: “I am here in The Forum and I want to eat.” Is that a problem?
GRACE
Not unless there’s a “but” in there.
WES
Do you hear a problem there?
GRACE
No.
WES
But: “I’m here in The Forum, but I’m starving to death.” Do you hear a problem?
GRACE
Yes.
WES
Taking the same forces and I’ve presented them to create a confl ict, at which I am at the eff ect 
and stuck with. And it comes from, not from life, because in reality there are no problems, it
The ring of truth signals not only “Of course! That’s true!” but also,
embedded in its reverberations, “It’s been true all along.”
¥
In the early- to mid-1980s, during the period when the est Train-
t
ing was being retired and The Forum was being generated, Erhard’s
organization produced a series of audiotapes. In them, we hear Erhard
developing distinctions, oft en in dialogic sessions with seminar 
participants. In some, the influence of Heidegger’s vocabulary may be 
heard. In others, we observe Erhard exploring other articulations. As 
with Heidegger, Erhard’s work is generated from a central distinction,
which may be approached from an abundance of starting points.
One such starting point is the drift , a distinction developed 
on the 1985 audiotape, “Eff ective Action and Accomplishment.” 
This distinction opens a way to Erhard’s central transformational
distinction; we suggest that the dynamic of this distinction may be 
analogized to several that Heidegger hints at throughout his work,
with rubrics such as thrownness, the “they,” and the play of Being. 
To use a Heideggerian term, the two men are saying the Same (see 
the sidebar entitled “The Same” in Session Three of Day Three).
In this 1985 seminar, the distinction is teased out collabora-
tively in the interactions between Erhard and the seminar partici-
pants, all of whom have had previous experience of The Forum and
are familiar with Erhard’s basic vocabulary of distinctions and the 
rhetorical dialogue in which they get distinguished. In what follows 
here, we provide brief excerpts (elisions are not shown).
Erhard opens the seminar with the image of a “boat in the
water with no rudder and no sails”:
Now when you put a boat in the water it
doesn’t stay still. It moves. And some ninny on 
the shore might say, “Boy, there’s a lot of in-
tention in that boat.” But really what there is
in the boat is drift . So I want to invent this dis-
tinction for ourselves called the drift . You and
I are drift ing. Life is drift ing. The world is drift -
ing. Humanity is drift ing. The United States is
drift ing. . . . There’s a certain drift . And there’s 
no distinction called the drift .
“


=== END OF PAGE 427 ===