=== PAGE 221 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Two 207
PARTICIPANT (a teenage boy)
I’ve always been cracking jokes, always had to have something to say, and now what I’m looking 
at... is... it’s all an act. 
PARTICIPANT
I could only get in touch with a little fear.
WES
This is not about liberation. You should experience that suppression. Whatever you experience 
is fi ne, really. Just continue to listen to the conversation in the room. And if you continue to 
listen to the conversation in the room, it will continue to open up for you—what’s going on 
with you. We’re a long way until the end of The Forum. Be here, now, in this conversation. The 
Forum is too simple for complicated minds. The conversation going on in the room is more 
powerful than your internal dialogue. 
(applause)
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 7)
This is the fi rst time I really saw how scared to death I am of people in authority. My father 
died when I was four years old, and my mother was a very strong and powerful woman. That’s 
the bitch I can never get away from. If we did not do what she asked us to do, she would tie us 
up and beat us with a stick, or with words. I saw that I can never be myself around people in 
authority, because I am always afraid of being beaten or yelled at. And so I turn into a weasel 
around authority and I can’t make straight requests, because when I asked my mother, I knew 
it wouldn’t be accepted. And I couldn’t say no to her, ever. None of us could, there were three 
of us. And the other side of it, that being able to see, really, that she was scared to death of me, 
that she was scared to death that I would not do what she asked if she didn’t use force. Later on, 
when you spoke about compassion, and I felt such deep compassion for all people in authority 
who use force, because they’re really scared that if they don’t use force, you won’t do what they 
are asking you to do. I’m standing in this huge possibility of really being with people who use 
force and really being there and really acknowledging my terror of forty-nine years of stuff  has 
disappeared. 
WES
Thank you.
Wes announced a break. The assignment for the break: get a partner and complete your experience 
of the exercise.
The Forum adjourned for a break at 4:00 pm.
fear in anxiety is “really nothing”; in saying this, the concept of 
nothing has been reached. But what gives an experience of anxiety 
its potential for self-revelation is that in such a state of mind we 
reach nothing ontologically. And in this deeply experienced loss of 
worldly significance there occurs, simultaneously, the possibility 
of the clearing, the pure Being-openness which is Dasein. As 
anxiety, the experience is unsettling; beneath and beyond lies the 
possibility. But do not build up too much hope.
In the Danger Process, we can observe a clear instance of what 
appears to be a symbiotic relationship between Erhard’s work and the 
thinking of Martin Heidegger. This process was a central element of 
the est Training from its inception, and consistently provided one of its 
most dramatic components. But in The Forum, when that process is 
placed within the framework of Heidegger’s model of Dasein, it gains 
a new and empowering context; while at the same time, the in-the-
world power of Heidegger’s model is illuminated. 
We note, however, that despite this aff inity between the 
evocative aims of the two thinkers, on our view it would be 
inaccurate to say that The Forum evokes an experience of anxiety 
in participants. That term has denotative power in its use by 
Heidegger, suggesting the aff ective extremity of the path to 
ontological liberation. But the languaging of The Forum employs its 
own vocabulary of hints, thereby providing an alternate ontological 
path—equally extreme, but without the inevitable psychological 
implications that currently accompany the concept of anxiety. 
We assert that what distinguishes the transformation of 
Erhard’s work from the majority of personal empowerment 
programs—those that, in Erhard’s words, help people become 
“more, better, or diff erent”—is its evocation of the Nothing. An 
authentic experience of Being, said Heidegger, must begin by 
doing violence to the “tranquillized obviousness” of the everyday 
interpretation. Therefore The Forum works backward before it 
moves forward; this is the heart of its genius. ■


=== END OF PAGE 221 ===