=== PAGE 491 ===

Forum Day Four: Session Three 477
Nobody told her to do that: How did her actions change? What happened is this: Ellen’s actions 
are perfectly correlated to the ball. They’re not perfectly correlated to the “is” ball; they’re 
perfectly correlated to the occurring ball. See, you watch where the ball goes, and you’re sitting 
out there observing, so the ball looks like it’s more or less diffi  cult to catch, it’s going more or 
less fast, or whatever it’s doing, but that’s not what Ellen’s watching. What Ellen was watching 
was the occurring ball. You get the diff erence between the two? At fi rst the ball occurred as 
fast and small, and her actions were perfectly correlated with a small and fast ball. Later, after 
she got oriented, the ball got bigger and slower. Instead of being up there like a threat, it was 
fl oating up there, and she could reach up and catch the ball. Now I’m going to make the point 
more clearly for you. 
Erhard walked to the back of the podium to the table there to get a dictionary.
(walking back holding the dictionary)
So you can tell what the source of action is, we’re going to handle it with the dictionary. So 
you’ve got to watch!
Erhard suddenly tossed it off  to one side into the audience. A participant caught it and then tossed it 
back. This process was repeated several times. 
ERHARD
Do you see any talent down there? Do you see any experience down there? Do you see any 
know-how down there? No: just dictionaries fl ying and people’s hands moving. See how 
that happens? No talent; no experience: just the dictionary and people’s hands moving. Is 
that clear? Action is a correlate of the occurring. However the ball occurs, your actions will be 
perfectly correlated. You get a truly uncoordinated person, or a person who calls themselves 
uncoordinated, and you lob the ball at them... it doesn’t look like that. It looks like a pea 
traveling at supersonic speed. You want to see a true athlete dealing with a pea traveling at 
supersonic speed? I’ll show you how clumsy 
they look. 
Erhard then called for someone who was athletic to come up. Erhard began tossing the ball to this 
participant, but threw it widely, to a point where he was unable to catch it. Erhard pointed out to the 
group how “clumsy” the athletic participant looked. 
(continuing)
That’s how the ball looks to somebody “clumsy,” where the ball occurs as uncatchable. He 
acts like Ellen acts, like the occurring “uncatchable ball.” Actions are correlated to the ball as 
occurring. Correlate is a diffi  cult word for people because we think in terms of “because,” or 
“cause and eff ect.” Correlation is not cause and eff ect. His actions are perfectly correlated to the 
ball as an occurring ball. Ellen’s actions are exactly the same: perfectly correlated to the ball as 
occurring. Your actions in life, what you do at work, the way you act with your wife or husband, 
the way you act with your friends, the way you act with things, are a correlate of the occurring. 
become appearing in the second sense: an already prepared space. 
Presence as an event of coming-to-presence is always coming-to-
presence, or it becomes constant presence.
To be always coming to presence, a being must be always 
withdrawing. If a being’s existence in the world occurs as an event, 
then each occurrence of the event must end with a return to the 
state from which the event begins. The state from which an event 
of Being begins is non-Being; therefore the happening of Being 
must include non-Being as the context to which it can return and 
from which it can begin. 
This was the nature of the sway, where unconcealment always 
returned to concealment, and meaninglessness was always the 
context for meanings. In bringing the sway to stand in the world, 
the pre-Socratics were creating a world in which beings did not 
attain a state of constant presence, but were always wavering, 
always “held out in a questioning manner into the possibility of 
not-Being” (IM 31).
This wavering has been forgotten. Heidegger’s purpose, and 
that of The Forum, is its recovery. ■


=== END OF PAGE 491 ===