=== PAGE 439 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
425
all that other stuff  to it. As a matter of fact, when you’re lost, you could discover something. But
when you’re lost and angry, you’re too busy being angry to fi nd out anything beyond being lost 
and angry. Anything else?
DOREL
No. Thank you.
KIPP
Well done. Thank you very much.
WES
Wait a second, Kipp. Just to complete this: You have to deal with your own listening to this 
conversation. Consider the possibility that you are listening to the conversation about problems
like it would help you solve them. See that? It’s listening to this like “Oh, here’s new stuff  to help
me solve my problems.” That’s more of the same. This conversation is intended to create a new 
clearing for problems, which clearing will alter you and the problems in life. That’s the intention. 
If you were looking at Illiana’s face, she got a new clearing for this whole thing about attention. 
She still needs attention. She still has a racket. Still has the same job. But the occurrence “atten-
tion” occurs in a new clearing. This clearing will give her the opportunity to make new requests.
See, she’s never tried out being straight with people about giving her attention. Like...
(to Illiana, who is sitting)
“Would you give me some attention? Let’s stop for fi ve minutes. I’m producing great results. I
want you to listen to what happened to me today. Would you be willing to do that?” The racket 
is to do it and have a problem with doing it. Now you can just do it. By the way, this attention 
thing has something else behind it.
(to the group)
The point is that there’s a possibility for you and your problems to relate diff erently. A new 
clearing. You don’t have to remember any of this. No, there’s one thing you have to remember:
Your problems are part of your racket and your racket stinks. That’s all you need to remember.
That’ll create a new clearing for you.
At 3:30, Kipp asked participants to stand up and stretch and then sit back down.
KIPP
When you come into life from empty and meaningless, and you’re able to be with your racket,
what opens up for you is choice. However, you don’t know anything about choice. So we’re
going to spend some time distinguishing choice as choice. So when you say you’re going to do
something and you want to do it, you say what? You go out and make a what? A decision, yes? 
You say something like “I made a decision to do this.” First of all, we want to get choice and
decision distinct. The word “decide” comes from the same family as suicide, matricide, and


=== END OF PAGE 439 ===