=== PAGE 436 ===

422
SPEAKING BEING
WES
Right. It opens up participation. Your problems are stops to participation. 
PAUL
It’s not this big tragedy anymore, like “I’ve got to commit myself to this!” Just do it.
WES
Great. Thanks.
DOREL
I’ve been sitting here thinking about my problems, and there’s a lot of them.
KIPP
All the problems you have in your languaging. 
DOREL
In my languaging.
KIPP
You see the diff erence between those? There are no problems in your life, are there?
DOREL
I think I see what you’re saying, it’s just that I created...
KIPP
Be careful about this creation business. They live in the conversation you are. There are no 
problems out there. Your dog never has any problems. And when you say you have a lot of 
problems in your life, you’re saying there’s this “life” someplace that contains these problems; 
the problems are in your conversations. Languaging.
DOREL
One of the things I got was that I get easily upset and angry.
KIPP
You’re kidding. How did you get in here? He gets easily upset? Angry?
(laughter)r
DOREL
I think a big source of that is I want to make others wrong. 
living, and self occur for us,
r
colors and shapes that occurring.  We
term this background or environment for the way life, living, and
self occur:  “mood.”  The occurring is in the foreground and the
d
mood is in the
d
background coloring and shaping the
d
occurring in 
the foreground.  During the in-class sessions of the course we will 
clarify and fully deal with what is introduced in this paragraph.  At
this point, the only thing there is to get about what is said in this
paragraph is that there is this something called “mood,” and mood
is distinct from and diff erent than what is meant by “clearing,” a
term you will encounter in the next section. 
The “Fundamental and Essential Nature and 
Function of Being for Human Beings” in Contrast 
to One’s “Way of Being”
There is a difference between the fundamental and essential
nature of “being” for human beings, and any person’s individual 
moment-to-moment particular “way of being.” 
t
We are sometimes aware of our particular moment-to-mo-
ment way of being, but we human beings so take for granted 
that we exist (that we
t
are), that we give no thought to the actual 
nature and function of being for us human beings (unless it is to 
think about the time when we won’t be at all).  As a result, getting
clear about the fundamental and essential nature and function of 
being for human beings (as contrasted with our individual mo-
ment-to-moment way of being) will be somewhat challenging.
Being for human beings (that is, the fundamental and essen-
tial nature of being for human beings) is “being the clearing” (the
possibility, or something like, the emptiness or nothingness) in
which life, living, and self occur or 
r
show up for us.  What shows up 
in the clearing that we are is all of it, the entire “state of the world.” 
All of it, our entire “state of the world”—includes physical objects
and non-physical entities of every kind (and their properties and 
in various relationships), other people (and their properties and in


=== END OF PAGE 436 ===