=== PAGE 512 ===

498
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
No, it does not. I said it can’t. If you can’t get it down the tube—if the tube’s blocked—your 
brain, your nervous system, your muscles are just a tube to get it down. This is real simple. 
We’re not talking about growing a third arm here. So it’s a trivial conversation to get stuck in 
this muscles and bones and nerves thing. I’m willing to do it if we need to because I’m someone 
who can stay up all night. But that’s not the conversation that you and I ought to be having 
when we’re talking about your being able to behave eff ectively.
MELINDA
Okay.
ERHARD
Growing a third arm is a diff erent conversation. It’s true that your body is a tube down which 
this gets expressed, but it’s only the tube. You know, I’ve worked with brain-damaged children. 
There’s no less of a person there. There’s less of a person expressed. No question about it. There 
are ways to get around the limits of the tubes. Blind people function with the same equipment 
I’ve got at a way higher level than I do. Your body is merely the tube down which this gets 
expressed. The tube is trivial.
(Melinda sitting)
About the occurring, and about access to the occurring... We now know that access to action is 
in the occurring. You don’t gain access to action through decisions, and making up your mind, 
and all that other nonsense. That’s a very weak access to your actions. If you checked and 
counted up how many times you made up your mind and then checked how many times you 
did what you made up your mind to do: very infrequently. It’s a lousy access to action. Takes 
you forever to produce any eff ective action that way. Takes years of practice and discipline to 
produce any eff ective action that way. And it isn’t the way to produce action, even taking years 
to do it. It’s just a stupid way to behave and it’s based on a stupid explanation; an ineff ective way 
to behave based on a stupid explanation. 
(pausing to take a sip from a silver mug)
Now here’s another hard part. Where does the photographic image occur? Not on the paper! 
Because if the photographic image occurred on the paper, everybody who looked at the paper 
would see a photographic image. There are people who look at the paper and don’t see any 
photographic image, that is to say, no photographic image occurs. Is that clear? Where does 
the photographic image occur? This is the question you should be asking: Where does the 
photographic image occur?
BARRY
When I’m shooting...
ERHARD
A photographic image is not shooting. 


=== END OF PAGE 512 ===