=== PAGE 208 ===

194
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD (rejoining the conversation) 
“I’m confused” is a racket; always only a racket. It’s a way of being from which you can survive 
when you’re threatened. “I know that I don’t know” is an opening for enlightenment. Nothing 
shows up in confusion. Confusion is a resistance to knowing, and it’s built on a resistance to not 
knowing. Your resistance to not knowing produces this racket called being confused. Lots of the 
time when I’m reading I have to read something over again because I don’t get it. But I’m not 
confused. If I’m confused I put the book down and walk away. Not knowing is a very high state 
of knowing. It’s the step next to knowing. But confusion is way down at the bottom. The state 
before natural knowing is knowing that you don’t know. Confusion is a defense mechanism, not 
an attempt to learn. It’s a defense mechanism against fear.
AYAKO
My sleepless nights disappeared the moment I signed up for The Forum. 
WES
How many of you had something signifi cant happen out of enrolling? 
(most people in the room raising their hands) 
Why that happens: it was a commitment. Filling out the card, paying the money, created a 
commitment. It’s a stand for something, which itself generates the results.
PARTICIPANT
What I’m in the presence of is the cost of trying to change my racket instead of having it.
WES
You always have a reason for everything. That’s what it is to be human. What displaces the 
possibility of contributing or making a diff erence is identity.
PARTICIPANT
I was surprised that the person I chose to write the letter to was my mother—surprised that she 
was the person who would understand—with all the stuff  I have going on. 
WES
You notice her mother didn’t change. This shift in her relationship with her mother came 
from a realization she had. When your racket is running your life, your life isn’t happening. 
Something dead is happening, not living. When your racket is running your life, something is 
thwarting life.
At this point Wes announced a break, and gave participants an assignment.
WES (continuing)
Two questions for the break: What is your fundamental point of view about life? What is the 
fundamental point of view about life?
They adjourned for a break at 12:25.
“ 
Confusion is a resistance to knowing, and 
it’s built on a resistance to not knowing. 
Your resistance to not knowing produces 
this racket called being confused.


=== END OF PAGE 208 ===