=== PAGE 475 ===

Forum Day Four: Session Three 461
that.’” And if it’s appropriate you communicate that, and that has the thing moving. And the 
other thing I saw about problems is, just like you said, it’s stuck, it’s not moving, and when the 
conversation is out here, it’s moving then, and it begins to work its way through whatever’s 
stuck.
KIPP (to the group)
What you want to notice here is that even if you don’t quite understand what he is saying, you 
can be with him distinguishing something. What’s enlivening is this business of learning and 
growing. That’s what’s attractive to you, it’s his life that he’s inquiring into here. The guy’s so 
turned on he can barely stand it. 
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 12)
That’s the last thing I want to say. I’ve been doing this for a long time...
KIPP
That’s why this Forum is special. You’ve got the old timers in this room. You fi nd out what it’s 
like to live this stuff  for seventeen years. Doesn’t get less. Not like something you did seventeen 
years ago.
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 12)
I remember when I read Zen Mind, Beginner’s Mind. The biggest pitfall is that you think 
you know Zen, is that you “got it.” There was a part of this Forum when I was listening, 
“yeah I got that.” And then there was another moment when I saw that I’d had the 
conversation fifty times and a lot of people have gotten value out of that, but my life sucks 
in that area. I’m so good at working with all these people making a difference, but what 
about me and problems? 
KIPP
That’s the diff erence between leading The Forum and being The Forum.
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 12)
Exactly. And all of a sudden, at that moment, I got all excited about The Forum and the work, 
and participating in it again, and learning, and growing and it was all brand-new for me.
KIPP
Thank you.
(applause)
It’s going to take everything you’ve got to be unreasonable with yourself to keep it opened up. 
WANDA (whose mother is also a participant in The Forum) 
I completed my relationship with my mother, I’m thrilled to say, and I actually didn’t think 
that I needed to. But then yesterday when someone was sharing, I just started to cry a lot, and I 
didn’t know what she had just said that made me cry.
PARTICIPANT  (Forum leader 12, continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 475 ===