=== PAGE 127 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session One 
113
doesn’t screw it up by trying to fi x it. If all she does is just be with it, there will be a whole new 
possibility in attraction. It’ll be a diff erent thing for her. That will not be the limit of attraction.
JODIE
I’ve buried me. I’ve buried it so much, I don’t even know what’s there anymore. I don’t want to
take it out and look at it.
ERHARD (to Jodie)
That’s really very beautiful, what you saw: really extraordinary. It took me about ten years to 
get what you got overnight. What you begin to see here is that when the name of the game
is looking good, there is no self-expression. None. So whatever there is, whatever quality life 
would have, if life were self-expression, it doesn’t have that when life is looking good. And life is
looking good.
(to the group)
You aren’t going to get any clearer than she gave it to you. I’m going to talk about it a lot. But
she gave it to you real clearly.
(to Jodie)
What else?
JODIE
It all comes down to wanting to be liked. And what shows up for me in relationships and espe-
cially work relationships, I put on this story: “I don’t care if I’m liked, I want to be respected.”
ERHARD
Anybody who tells you that is full of shit. What they really mean is that they’re not sure about
being liked. They don’t know whether they can play that game. They got more confi dence about
being respected. Everybody wants to be liked. It’s nothing personal about you. It’s a rainstorm
called the already always being of human beings. And it is in the nature of being of human be-
ings to have a powerful concern for being liked. And there are endless strategies for dealing with
this powerful addiction to looking good. People who say they don’t care about being liked: if you
don’t care then why are you telling me? You didn’t say you didn’t care if I blink my eyes. Why 
did you go out of your way to say you don’t care if I like you? “Methinks the lady doth protest 
too much.” It’s not personal. Can we get that fl at now? It’s not personal. You don’t have a fuck-
ing thing to do with it, nothing. You didn’t make that up. It belongs to the already always being
of human being. You just happened to walk into the rainstorm called being a human being, and
as such you got wet by that rain. You personally want to be liked, have to be liked, need to be
liked, are addicted to being liked. But it’s nothing personal, and treating it personally is stupid
and it will make you stupid. Some people are guilty about wanting to be liked. You’re guilty of 
being a human being, that’s all. You need to know it’s an ontological phenomenon, a phenome-
non of being. And it doesn’t belong to you personally, it belongs to being human, as you do.
“
  What you begin to see here is that when the 
name of the game is looking good, there is no 
self-expression. None. So whatever there is, 
whatever quality life would have, if life were 
self-expression, it doesn’t have that when life 
is looking good. And life is looking good.


=== END OF PAGE 127 ===