=== PAGE 38 ===

24
SPEAKING BEING
BILL
That’s quite obvious.
ERHARD
Now do you have something to say that’s thoughtful? Because I’m not interested in your beliefs.
BILL
You’re competing with me in your lack of thoughtfulness in the terminology that you use on a 
regular basis, my friend.
ERHARD
Really?
BILL
Yes. Thoughtfulness is as thoughtfulness does. To be thoughtful I would expect a mutual kind
of communication.
ERHARD
You got a mutual kind of communication. You got bullshit for bullshit.
BILL
Thank you very much. You are quite impressive.
ERHARD
Thank you. Are you here because you were pressured into being here?
BILL
I drove here.
ERHARD
I understand. Were you pressured into being here? I know you’re not here because you were 
pressured into being here. I can take one look at you and know that wasn’t true. I know you’re
up there to fuck with me.
BILL
Now...
ERHARD
Hold on, let me talk for a while. So you’re going to tell me the story about people called you a 
lot of times and people kept inviting you and kept saying you were supposed to. Understand? 
That’s the story you’re going to tell me and I already know the story. You won’t be the fi rst
person with that story. This is a story I’ve heard a lot of times. Now why was I bad with you 
MOOD
Heidegger’s masterwork, Being and Time, presents a model of 
human being that focuses on our lived, everyday experience. This
“average everydayness,” he says, has been generally disregarded
in attempts to understand our nature. It is so apparent and well-
known to us that we fail to recognize the ontological significance
of its elements. One of these elements is mood.
Mood, or state-of-mind (
d Befindlichkeit) is a manifestation of 
the moment-to-moment way one is automatically attuned to the 
world. My mood provides a context—a background environment—
in which I move; it pervades and colors my relationship to 
whatever I am up to at any moment, for instance, when Erhard 
says “your pessimism is you.” In bad moods, “Dasein becomes 
blind to itself” (BT 175). And while we may not notice it, says
T
Heidegger, a human being always has some mood, even when its 
specific nature is elusive: 
The pallid, evenly balanced lack of mood, 
which is oft en persistent and which is not to be 
mistaken for a bad mood, is far from nothing
at all. Rather, it is in this that Dasein becomes 
satiated with itself. Being has become
manifest as a burden. Why that should be, one
does not know.
w (BT 173) 
T
“
Furthermore, “when we master a mood, we do so by way
of a counter-mood; we are never free of moods” (BT 175). Mood
T
is the persistent background of our lives. Our moods come over 
us, and our cognition cannot reach their source: “The pure ‘that 
it is’ shows itself, but the ‘whence’ and the ‘whither’ remain in 
darkness” (BT 173).
T
This last point will be seen as significant as The Forum 
approaches its climax: we are always brought before ourselves


=== END OF PAGE 38 ===