=== PAGE 299 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Four 
285
KEVIN
What the reaction was all about?
KIPP
No, exactly what you said, that you didn’t trust. The way you got trust, trust isn’t available. Trust 
to you is accounting. 
KEVIN
Right.
KIPP
So when you’re bored, you get this big accounting sheet with everybody’s name on it. 
Kipp did an entertaining demonstration of Kevin’s view of trust: as a matter of accounting, using a 
list he carried with him crossing people off  whom he did not trust.
KIPP (continuing)
And you walk down the path of life, with your little pad with everybody’s name on it, and “you 
remember twelve years ago we were working on that thing, I wanted to do that thing, but you 
got to and I didn’t?”
(crossing off  that person’s name on an imagined  list)
“Seventeen years ago, that company picnic, you walked over to the boss and started talking to 
him? And he stopped talking to me?”
(crossing off  another person’s name; pointing at another person)
“You didn’t do anything but someone with a beard like that did.”
(crossing yet another name off  the list, to laughter)
That’s what you call trust.
KEVIN
But my list is way longer.
KIPP
There’s no trust there, just adding up and keeping track.
KEVIN
That’s right. 
KIPP
Trust. I’m inviting you to consider that maybe, trust is simply, “I trust you.”
you don’t get it—for a long time—and then you get it, all at once. 
This is the moment of insight that Heidegger calls Augenblick—a 
moment of vision—and he says it occurs as a leap:
“
There is no bridge here—only the leap. [. . .] 
The leap alone takes us into the neighborhood
where thinking resides. [. . .] In contrast to a
steady progress, where we move unawares
from one thing to the next and everything 
remains alike, the leap takes us abruptly to 
where everything is diff erent, so diff erent 
that it strikes us as strange. [. . .] Though we 
may not founder in such a leap, what the leap
takes us to will confound us. (WCT 8, 12)
T
On the other hand, he cautions: 
“
Leap and vision require long, slow preparation. . . . 
(WCT 233) 
T
Nobody can in just one single leap take dis-
tance from the predominant circle of ideas, es-
pecially not if he is dealing with the well-worn 
tracks of traditional thinking—tracks that fade
into realms where they can hardly be seen. 
(“DL” in OWL 36)
Only one who takes the right running start can
leap. Everything is decided by this run, for it
means that we ourselves actually ask the ques-
tions again, and that we, in these questions,
first create the perspectives. (IM 196)
M
Yet it is important to remember, again, that while we are on the 
way to language and thinking, we are always within language and 
thinking. Therefore the paradox and reflexivity continues, once we 
have made that leap:


=== END OF PAGE 299 ===