=== PAGE 519 ===

Forum Day Four: Session Three 505
ERHARD (continuing to laughter)
That’s you. You’re “oh shit!” That’s how we know when you got back. 
(laughter; indicating third empty circle)
So a lot of what the second half of The Forum is about is access to this domain. And you and I 
are not going to do as good a job at access to that domain as you were getting to zero, because 
you all were a pain in the ass and it took too long to get to zero. If you didn’t hear me making 
you wrong, I was just making you wrong. 
(laughter)
The other side of that is that we haven’t gotten our shit together to get The Forum to zero 
quickly enough to do a good job on the second half. That’s making me wrong. You notice 
nothing changes, no matter who’s wrong?
(laughter and applause) 
The point is that we can’t do very much more than open up the second half of The Forum. 
That’s as much as we can get done, because you all need your beauty sleep.
(laughter)
Okay, so what is this domain? If it’s not experiential, and it isn’t; it’s not conceptual, and it isn’t: 
What is that domain?
(writing “possibility” in the third circle) 
Simple. It’s the domain of possibility. Not this possibility or that possibility,
(indicating the “story” circle)
...that’s here. You could say that it’s the possibility of possibility. But there’s no such domain. 
No matter where you go to look for it you can’t fi nd it. You can’t have it unless you invent it. 
You have to invent the possibility of possibility. You want to listen to that. People don’t have 
possibility in their lives. They have options. Options are futures generated from the past. The 
past could work out like this, or it could work out like that. You know, common conversation 
between people. Things could work out like this, or they could work out like that. “They’re 
likely to work out like this, but oh boy would I love them to work out like that, but that is 
not very likely.” That is not possibility; that is “options.” Options are conceptual. And your 
experience—listen up—your experience will mostly be limited to the options that you give 
yourself to experience. It’s the vicious circle all over again.
(indicating the “story” circle)
The options are here. Why do I call them options? Because they’re derived from your past 
experiences! The options shape your future experience. And the option-shaped experiences 
reinforce the options. So now you fi nally got yourself fi gured out so you don’t need to get 
up in the morning anymore, because there’s nowhere to go. Why bother? You already know 
how it’s going to be, so why bother? The only reason why most of you get up is because you 


=== END OF PAGE 519 ===