=== PAGE 191 ===

Forum Day Three: Session One
177
SUSAN
That’s right. I’m afraid I’m not going to fi nd the right position. I told him about my racket, that 
“I’m right only when it matters to you that you’re right. It doesn’t matter if either way is okay. 
But if you’re adamant about being right, then I want to be right.”
KIPP
It’s called new love. It’s a new marriage.
SUSAN
Anyway. Very diffi  cult for me.
KIPP
But that’s the important part. How diffi  cult it is. Everything that you call yourself is going to 
fi ght against it. Every justifi cation in the world is going to be there to shut up.
SUSAN
I was afraid that I would lose footing.
KIPP
That’s right. Marriage isn’t about loving, about being at risk: it’s about dominating and winning. 
SUSAN
I thought I didn’t want to dominate. I just didn’t want to be dominated. 
ERHARD (entering the conversation) 
Thanks for this Susan. Very useful conversation. Dominating and avoiding domination are two 
sides of the same mirror. It doesn’t mean be a patsy either. There’s an alternative to dominating and 
avoiding domination. There’s a possibility beyond that. And it’s not possible to see that until you 
see what it costs you to dominate or avoid domination. Most marriages are about dominating and 
avoiding domination. They’re about being right and avoiding being wrong. That’s what marriages 
are really about. They’re not about the stuff  they put in the fairy tales. And they’re always going to 
be about that because you and I didn’t make that up, we inherited that when we became human 
beings. And it’s only to the degree that you can own that, for there to be a possibility beyond that. 
What you’re doing now, looking at that and owning that, taking it on and seeing that that’s what 
owns your marriage: that starts to create the possibility of some power in the marriage. 
(pausing)
The other thing is, you want to be able to get to the point where you can be with what people 
say. Otherwise you’re going to be manipulated by what people say. See, whatever your husband 
said about The Forum: stupid. But you couldn’t be with it; it took your being away from you. 
SUSAN
He used a lot of the terminology that you used, and that drove me nuts because he acted kind of 
smug. You know he had found “it.” I hadn’t, so I had to go get “it.” 
“ 
There’s an alternative to dominating and 
avoiding domination. There’s a possibility 
beyond that. And it’s not possible to see 
that until you see what it costs you to 
dominate or avoid domination.


=== END OF PAGE 191 ===