=== PAGE 254 ===

240
SPEAKING BEING
Wes held a pen about a foot in front of his mouth, trying to bite it while continuing to hold it out of 
reach, and chasing it around the stage while complaining about his failure to reach it.
JACOB
Yeah, I could have told you that, though...
WES (continuing to try to bite the carrot)
I’ll get there. Shit. I’ll get a Ph.D. Shit. I’ll get married. Shit...
At this moment a participant seated in the “no-video” section of the room called out angrily that 
the cameraman focused on Jacob was also including those seated in the “no-video” section. Kipp 
promised that it would be handled and it was.
JACOB (returning to the conversation)
I get that. I’m like a stupid donkey tied to a cart chasing a carrot, trying to get it. But I see that 
I’m just a little bit hungry and that’s leading me toward perfection.
WES
No, that’s bullshit.
JACOB
Okay, why? 
WES
Because it is.
JACOB
Okay, can I do a demonstration of you?
WES
No.
JACOB
Why not?
WES
Because I said so.
JACOB
Dick.
Heidegger—an important subordinate question to his overarching 
question of Being—concerns the relation between Being and 
thinking. What is the nature of that relation? How intimately do the 
two phenomena belong together? 
One of these Parmenidean fragments has traditionally been 
translated, “For thinking and Being are the Same.” Here Heidegger 
interrogates that translation:
Does this word give us an answer to the ques-
tion of how thinking belongs to Being, in that it 
says both are “the Same”? The word gives no 
answer. In the first place, because the deter-
mination “the Same” precludes any question 
about “belonging together,” which can only 
exist between things that are diff erent. In the 
second place, because the word “the Same” 
says nothing at all about the point of view 
from which, and for what reason, diff erence 
passes over into sameness. Thus to auto, the 
Same, remains the enigmatic key word for both 
fragments—if not for the whole of Parmenides’ 
thought. (EGT 88)
“
Heidegger leaves us in the dark here, because he wants us to 
place that enigmatic term in question. He wants us to recognize 
our tendency to gloss challenging ideas with easy and familiar 
interpretations:
Of course if we are of the opinion that the word
to auto, the Same, means “identical,” and if 
we accept “identity” completely as the most 
transparent presupposition for the thinkability
of whatever is thinkable, then by this opinion
we become progressively more deaf to the key 
word, assuming that we have ever heard its 
call. It is suff icient, however, to keep the word
in our hearing in its thought-provoking charac-
ter. In doing so we remain listeners. . . . (EGT 88)
“


=== END OF PAGE 254 ===