=== PAGE 248 ===

234
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD (walking across the room, speaking softly)
There’s no real one. This is it. It’s not going to get any better. It’s not going to work out. The 
right one is not going to come along. The right job isn’t going to come along. This is the only 
job there is, this is the only wife there is, this is the only life there is. This is not practice. You’re 
bullshitting yourself. This is the game, and you’re playing like you’re in practice. You want to get 
that this is the game. The right circumstances in which to be happy are not going to come along. 
They’re not. You’re waiting for it to turn out. Life is not going to work out. And someday it’s not 
going to be all better. Today is the way it is today and someday is the way someday is going to be. 
And in between it’s going to be the way it is in between. And the ultimate beyond that will be 
the way it is there.
(speaking forcefully, while walking among the group) 
This is not a practice life. Whatever you’ve got when you die, you’re going to die with it. And you 
are going to die with your aces. You thought “asshole” was insulting. It’s starting to make sense, 
isn’t it? It was a bit of a compliment, wasn’t it?
(laughter)
A participant named Jacob stood and took a microphone.
JACOB
Angel seems to be very concerned about the notion that nothing means anything. 
ERHARD
No no. Nobody said “nothing means anything.”
JACOB
Well, at any rate...
ERHARD
It means what it means.
JACOB
Well, at any rate...
ERHARD
A bowl is a bowl.
JACOB
Yeah.
ERHARD
It’s not nothing. It’s a bowl.
The right circumstances in which to be happy 
are not going to come along. They’re not. You’re 
waiting for it to turn out. Life is not going to 
work out. And someday it’s not going to be all 
better. Today is the way it is today and some-
day is the way someday is going to be. And in 
between it’s going to be the way it is in between. 
And the ultimate beyond that will be the way it 
is there.
“


=== END OF PAGE 248 ===