=== PAGE 31 ===

 
Forum Day One: Session One 
17
being, but you didn’t make up human being. You didn’t invent being nervous. You didn’t invent
having a barrier to expressing yourself. That doesn’t belong to you. That’s not yours. That’s in
the already always being of human being. It doesn’t belong to you; you belong to it.
(forcefully)
It owns you! You don’t own it. Being nervous owns your life. You don’t own being nervous. The 
metaphor is that there’s nothing personal about a rainstorm. It just rains, and I, you, personally 
get wet. But the rainstorm didn’t rain in order to get me wet. Being nervous is already always
there in the being of being human. And you and I walk out into that rainstorm and get wet... 
In The Forum, you get back the power to say something about your own way of being. Now 
you can only report on it. But you can’t say “I’m not nervous” and have it make any diff erence. 
After The Forum you will be able to.
BLAKE
I’m not as nervous as when I first stood up. I am here to make a change, find a new occupa-
tion, to get up in front of people. What it requires is getting up.
ERHARD
Not necessarily.
BLAKE
Well, I don’t know.
ERHARD
That’s right. And I do know.
BLAKE
That’s why I’m asking you.
ERHARD
I want to get it settled because you’re going to keep saying those stupid kinds of things: what
you have to do and what you don’t have to do for this to work. And the answer is you don’t
know. So I’m gonna tell you: what you have to do is what you do. So you’ll always know what
you have to do because you’re doing what you’re doing. To do something you’re not doing:
that’s bad. If you do what you do it’ll all work out. One of the things that you are doing is think-
ing you have to stand up. That’s fi ne for you to think that. You wanna know why I think it’s
fi ne for him to think that? Because that’s what he’s thinking.
BLAKE
You’re right. At some point you broke through whatever was in the way and now you’re up
there doing what you are doing.
The game in The Forum is the evocation of the presence 
of Being, and The Forum leader’s opponent is the way of being
that we in the technological age have been born into (the way 
we wound up being). Clearly, there is a certain direction which 
must be maintained in The Forum dialogue if its purpose is
to be achieved. The maintenance of this direction in the face 
of participants’ resistance might appear, to the everyday
understanding, as motivated by a need on The Forum leader’s
part to win the game, so that The Forum’s perspective is shown 
to be the true one. However, accepted in The Forum is that The
Forum leader’s responsibility is maintaining the ontological 
character of the conversation. “My job,” said Erhard, “is to 
manage the dialogue.” This management is not a matter of 
winning, but of keeping the way in view. In a recent conversation 
with the authors, Erhard put it this way: “I used this way of 
speaking to deal with people who are resisting in order to resist, 
rather than functioning in a dialogue.”
Any discussion of dialogue as pedagogy must always consider 
the question of mutuality, and this is especially delicate when the
dialogue’s purpose is the presencing of Being. The Forum leaders’ 
rank in The Forum dialogue is given by their ability to listen to 
the conversation from a certain perspective. As Erhard told The 
Forum leaders, “You’ve got to know that an authentic dialogue is 
going to generate clarity. You’ve also got to watch you don’t get
hooked. What hooks [you] is when someone says something that
you think puts you at a disadvantage.” Being hooked, for a Forum
leader, means being drawn into argument or commiseration with
participants’ stories about their lives, rather than maintaining
the transformed perspective given by The Forum’s ontological
distinctions. It is The Forum leader’s job not to get hooked.
This balance between mutuality and directedness in an 
ontological dialogue is an important matter. Obviously, there is
a thrust to such a dialogue—a movement of the conversation in 
the direction of its ontological intention. In his dialogue with the
Japanese scholar in On the Way to Language, Heidegger points 
to the nature of true dialogue when he states that “we may 


=== END OF PAGE 31 ===