=== PAGE 103 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session One 
89
The day began at 9:00 am, with Julie, The Forum Supervisor, leading the participants through the
process of fi lling out the Graduate Records form. Before the forms were collected, she asked the 
participants to stop writing, and Kipp mounted the platform (T-shaped, with stairs at the end of the 
center runway) and led a conversation about the Six-Day Course.* Following this hour-long conversa-
tion, Wes replaced Kipp on the platform to invite participants to share what they encountered when 
doing the assignment given at the end of Day One.
WES
Good morning. We’re going to begin with sharing. Would someone repeat the three assignments 
Werner gave you last night?
MAC (a participant in a wheelchair)
You’re one of the leaders of this Forum. This program has been going on for seventeen years
with hundreds of thousands of people, which means you have had many hundreds of Forums.
To keep us here to one o’clock means for me that after doing my homework I wasn’t able to 
get to bed until a quarter till three. I request that you organize yourselves, as we must organize
ourselves, so that we can leave here by eleven instead of one o’clock.
WES
I got your suggestion.
MAC
But are you going to do anything about it?
WES
The Forum will probably end between eleven and one am.
SPEAKING 
BEING
DAY TWO
FORUM DAY TWO: 
SESSION ONE
* 
NOTE: The Six-Day Course originally was included as part of what was called the Ten-Day
Teen Training, first delivered in June 1973. In addition to the four-day est Training, six days 
were devoted to various physical challenges such as riding zip-lines and repelling cliff s. 
The Six-Day Course that Kipp discussed here at the beginning of Day Two of The Forum was
first delivered in March 1977 for adult graduates of the est Training, and continued to be de-
livered through the transition to The Forum in 1985, up until June 1991 when the last Six-Day
was held.
Some elements of the course were included (though significantly revised) in what became
the Landmark Advanced Course, first delivered in 1991. This course still (as of 2019) serves as the 
second of four parts of Landmark’s Curriculum for Living, the other two parts of which are 
The Landmark Forum in Action ten-session seminar series and The Landmark Self-Expression 
and Leadership Program. 


=== END OF PAGE 103 ===