=== PAGE 403 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
389
do, then you have your pals there, and you go up to them and you say, “you know that thing 
I said I was going to do? Well I didn’t do it, but you know what happened? You know how 
my mother... and I was busy, I got real afraid, and I didn’t feel real good, either. You under-
stand, right?” And of course my pal’s job—if he’s my friend, my buddy—his job is to buy 
my reasons. Why? So when he doesn’t do what he said he was going to do, he’s got his mark
all set up. So he comes to me and says “Hey Kipp, remember that thing I said I was going to 
do? Well I didn’t do it because...” What a lot of your friendships are based on is buying each 
other’s reasons—interlocking conspiracies of disloyalty. That’s what you call your friends:
people who buy your crap. See, if somebody comes along and sticks your crap back in your
face, you get offended. Those are the people who are going to make some kind of difference 
in your life. The ones that are straight with you. You’ve got the people in your life trained to 
not be straight with you. You better find some people in life to be straight with you—they 
aren’t going to be so reasonable.
WES
One of the things you can count on in the seminar program is the conversations you’re going to
have there are going to be very unreasonable.
(shifting)
So, we’re practicing a new conversation that involves the destruction of reasons and the creation
of participation. I want you to turn to the person next to you and practice this conversation. So 
get a partner... 
Participants organized themselves into pairs with Wes assisting them.
WES
Here’s what you’re going to say: “In this part of my life I didn’t participate, and these are 
the reasons I’ve used.” And while saying this, see if you’re willing to give up these reasons,
and if you are, then create some way of saying how you’re now going to participate there.
You’re creating a commitment to participate. You’ll notice you don’t even need to give a
reason for it. You’re just sort of saying you will and you’re confronting the reasons for not. 
Listen for the possibility of participating in life rather than to the reasons for not. Pick who
will go first. Ready? Begin.
Participants shared with each other for several minutes. Wes directed participants to provide feed-
back, then to switch roles. Wes then gave the participants another opportunity to share once again 
with their partners, after having reiterated the instructions, emphasizing the requirement to clearly 
state what the reasons were for not participating in life (“why you shouldn’t, wouldn’t, or couldn’t...”),
and to express willingness to give up the reasons.
WES
Stop. Please acknowledge the person who shared with you. We’ve begun a conversation for 
participating in life. One of the things we want to deal with is where people get stuck in their


=== END OF PAGE 403 ===