=== PAGE 89 ===

Forum Day One: Session Four 
75
Lee Iacocca and Al Newheart’s books? They would give everything they’ve got if they could give 
what they’ve got to you. Why can’t they? 
(pointing to the right of the X on the chalkboard)
Because they write the book in this language, the language of description, definition, and expla-
nation. Because people don’t buy books they can’t understand. That’s why we took your money 
before you got in here. When I talk about power I’m talking about something like the freedom 
to be, not force, which is the negation of power. I saw a film of a Japanese Judo master, and 
never once saw that man stop to think. And I watched the film over and over. The guys he was 
fighting stopped to think and got thrown. He was acting out of being something. His opponents, 
on the other hand, were acting out of knowing the answers. You see, you can’t throw somebody 
unless they’re set some way. 
(moving away from the board)
We’re going to talk about another critical thing: the listening that you are. I know you’ve got 
questions and comments, and I know some of it didn’t go clunk for you yet. That’s all right. 
We’ll get there. I talk in a language designed and crafted to give access to what concerns you at 
its source. Now I want to talk about the already always listening that you are. What is the listen-
ing you already always are? For the moment, in this conversation, what you are is a listening. 
In the normal course of events, I talk to you like you’re an empty vessel. That isn’t the way it is. 
The vessel’s already full, up to the top. It only admits certain things and it expels other things. It 
changes certain things. You and I are an already always listening.
(pausing)
When I got this distinction already always listening—not a concept or an idea, but a distinction; 
I’m teasing you with that word and you’ll find out about it tomorrow—I began to look at what is 
my already always listening. It was very clear to me. The already always listening I was, was “I 
know.” I was even a bigger pain in the ass in those days, and a smartass to boot. The only thing I 
ever heard was what I already knew. You wake up a certain listening. Your job on this break will 
be to discover the listening which you already always are.
(pausing)
Who can see already what your listening is? 
PARTICIPANT
The already always listening which I am is that I understand you completely. 
ERHARD
Very good.
PARTICIPANT
I’m not good enough.
ERHARD
A lot of us share that one: “The listening I’m going to provide for you is ‘I’m not good enough.’” 
Already Always Listening
This is a core distinction of The Forum, a hint that works together 
with other distinctions (e.g., mood and concern) to relocate 
participants’ understanding of the source of meaning in their 
lives. It asks participants to consider that the way they hear (and 
see) events and people in their lives is a function of their listening, 
rather than being sourced by the people and events themselves. 
It would be possible, of course, to engage in a similar 
conversation using a more familiar psychological model. Such a 
conversation would assert that one’s perceptions are shaped by 
one’s attitudes. This way of framing things would be immediately 
accessible to anyone whose understanding has been shaped by 
th e Cartesian paradigm of an “internal” subject in an objectively 
meaningful world. 
But locating the source of meaning in one’s listening rather 
than in one’s mind situates the process in the world rather than 
“in the heads” of participants. This furthers the development of 
the Heideggerian model of human being as Being-in-the-world. 
Participants in Werner Erhard’s work are frequently coached 
to “stay out of your head,” and to “get present.” In Erhard’s 
vocabulary, “in your head” is equivalent to “in the past.” This is 
where the nature of one’s already always listening is determined: 
one makes decisions about people based on past events (“he’s 
untrustworthy,” “she’s controlling,” “they never listen to me”), and 
these decisions shape the way life occurs in the future. 
Erhard has used the analogy of yellow sunglasses, worn for an 
extended period of time: eventually, you forget that the sunglasses 


=== END OF PAGE 89 ===