=== PAGE 462 ===

448
SPEAKING BEING
The Forgetting of Being, Part Eight of Eight: The Heart of 
the Matter
A significant moment in the development of Western thinking, for Martin Heidegger, 
was that point in ancient Greek history that he calls the “the inceptive end of the 
great inception” (IM 200). The great inception was the new possibility for Being-
in-the-world that emerged in the thinking of the pre-Socratics; and this possibility 
reached its end with Plato. The end of a great possibility, however, does not occur as 
the culmination of a decline: 
The great begins great, sustains itself only through the free 
recurrence of greatness, and if it is great, also comes to an 
end in greatness. So it is with the philosophy of the Greeks. 
It came to an end in greatness with Aristotle. (IM 17)
This process, which Heidegger calls “the play of Being,” has proceeded in such a way 
that “this ‘inception’ also covered up the inceptive inception” (IM 200). This is why 
current students of Western philosophy begin their studies with Plato and Aristotle: 
the great inception of the pre-Socratics has been subsumed by the metaphysical 
tradition of Western thinking, which has demonstrated its own greatness, and has 
created the circumstances of its own end.
Plato’s role in this development lay in his reinterpretation of physis—which for 
the pre-Socratics was the self-blossoming emergence of beings into the world—as 
eidos, or idea. Here Heidegger suggests the implications of this move:  
We can easily assess the distance between the two intepre-
tations if we pay attention to the diff erence between the 
perspectives in which these essential determinations of 
Being, physis and idea, move. Physis is the emerging sway, 
the standing-there-in-itself, constancy. Idea, the look as 
what is seen, is a determination of the constant insofar as, 
and only insofar as, it stands opposed to a seeing. (IM 203, 
emphasis added) 
For Platonic thinking, then, the term idea had quite specific implications: “The word idea 
means what is seen in the visible, the view that something offers. What is offered is the 
current look or eidos of whatever we encounter” (IM 201).  Emergence has been captured 
in appearance.
“ 
SESSION TWO INTERVAL
As this development has played itself out, therefore, the visible and substantial 
outcome of unconcealment (i.e., the being that is unconcealed) has come to sub-
sume in understanding the process by and through which that being has emerged. 
Idea, the “whatness” of beings, becomes the definitive interpretation of Being. Even-
tually, when Greek terms were translated into Latin by the Romans, physis became 
natura. Nature, the manifestation of physis which is most visible and accessible to 
us, in time came to represent Being.
Being was thereby enshrined in language as beings. But an element has gone 
missing in that enshrinement, says Heidegger, since “to be the Being of beings is the 
matter of Being” (EGT 50). Thus a puzzle arose, a puzzle in the languaging of Be-ing; 
and the puzzle lay in the unobtrusive but critical word “of”: 
The grammatical form of this enigmatic, ambiguous gen-
itive [“of”] indicates a genesis, the emergence of what is 
present from presencing. Yet the essence of this emergence 
remains concealed along with the essence of these two 
words [“Being” and “beings”]. Not only that, but the very 
relation between presencing and what is present remains 
unthought. (EGT 50)
The thinking of both Heidegger and Werner Erhard is designed to distinguish this 
relation between Being and beings, and to retrieve this relation from oblivion. 
Subsequent to the oblivion of this relation, the question of Being, now under-
stood as a higher being, had to look beyond other beings in an attempt to find its 
subject. For the Greeks, the tradition which placed Being beyond nature became 
meta ta physika. Furthermore, this metaphysical separation of essence from exis-
tence was set firmly in place for the Western tradition by the thinking of Plato:
...Being as idea was elevated to a suprasensory realm. 
The chasm, khorismos, was torn open between the merely 
apparent beings here below and the real Being somewhere 
up there. Christian doctrine then established itself in this 
chasm, while at the same time reinterpreting the Below 
as the created and the Above as the creator [. . .]. And so 
Nietzsche is right to say that Christianity is Platonism for 
the people. (IM 116)
We are approaching the heart of the matter with regard to the question which has 
generated this inquiry: Why does the transformational experience that is made available 
in The Forum occur as elusive, evasive, as a get-it-and-lose-it phenomenon? 
“ 
“ 
“ 


=== END OF PAGE 462 ===