=== PAGE 375 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
361
makes it turn out all right, right? Or it’s going to turn out wrong if you hope it’s going to turn 
out so you don’t dare hope. It’s voodoo. That’s nuts. That’s a guy following me with a knife with 
blood dripping down from it: “Don’t look! But you can’t see him anyhow, only I can see him.”
(laughter)
Look, what are you hoping for? You’re hoping it’ll all be all right, huh?
SALLY
Yeah.
ERHARD
But it won’t be all right. It’ll be the way it is. It won’t be any diff erent from the way it is. That’s 
the way it will be. It’ll be the way that it is. And all you’re doing is making a drama out of it. Is 
that clear?
SALLY
Yes.
ERHARD
If you like making dramas out of it go ahead. What you do with your life is none of my busi-
ness. That’s not my business, that’s your business. 
SALLY
So there’s no good or bad, there’s just the way it is.
Erhard’s manner is very relaxed and casual at this point, ranging freely in volume from loud to 
intimate. 
ERHARD
There is good and bad. Go out there and shoot someone; then you’ll fi nd out how bad it is. 
SALLY
All right, that’s where I’m stuck then, because...
ERHARD
I know you’re stuck. I know how you were brought up. 
(laughter)
Yeah, there is good and bad, but not inherently. Inherently there’s nothing. Was there goodness 
in the rainstorm when the fl ood came from the rain that killed people? Don’t you see that that’s 
insane? The rainstorm isn’t good or bad it’s a goddamn rainstorm. Where does good and bad 
exist? In a conversation. And that conversation has a lot of force to it. You exist in a particular 
culture; a particular religious culture, a particular ethnic culture, a particular national cul-
ture, a particular family culture, and that’s where good and bad arose from. It’s a phenomenon 
Caputo finds in this aspect of Heidegger’s thought a “serious
difficulty”: “It does not seem to me that many of Heidegger’s 
excited and enthusiastic followers, who speak like Heidegger, as
though they have experienced what Heidegger experienced, have 
recognized the austerity of Heidegger’s path or acknowledged the 
danger which lies along this path” (252–253). The danger of the 
path, says Caputo, lies in the powerlessness of human beings who 
travel it, and in their inability to find secure ground and comfort
in the mysterious realm of Being, whose apparently arbitrary 
nature Heidegger has described here, explicating Fragment 52 of 
Heraclitus, as “play”:
The “because” withers away in the play. The 
play is without “why.” It plays since it plays. 
It simply remains a play: the most elevated 
and the most profound. But this “simply” 
is everything, the one, the only. Nothing is
without ground/reason. Being and ground/
reason: the same. Being, as what grounds,
has no ground; as the abyss it plays the play 
that, as Geschick [destiny], passes [B]eing and 
k
ground/reason to us. The question remains
whether and how we, hearing the movements
of this play, play along and accommodate 
ourselves to the play. (PR 113)
“
Thus, for Caputo, Heidegger’s thought moves “close to the edge of 
despair. For he makes us dependent upon the outcome of a ‘game’ 
upon which our very essence is staked, a game in which thinking 
may lend a hand but in which it has no final say” (251–252).
The diff iculty with Heidegger is not that he is 
a mystic, but that he is not. His thought is so 
radically worldly and secular and drained of 
absolute and divine assurances that it can at 
best assist in a world-play; for the kingdom is 
in the hands of a child. (252)
“


=== END OF PAGE 375 ===