=== PAGE 556 ===

542
SPEAKING BEING
9 
 Irvin D. Yalom, Existential Psychotherapy (New York: Basic Books, 1980). See my review in
y
The
Review of Existential Psychology and Psychiatry, XVI, Nos. 2 and 3 (1980–81), 259–264. 
y
10  Ernst Becker, The Denial of Death (New York: Free Press, 1997 [originally published in 1974].)
11  Through Dreyfus’s good off ices, I met both Erhard and Flores, as a result of which the 
six months I spent in Berkeley proved to be extraordinary. Flores introduced Erhard to
Heidegger’s work, as well as to my book, Eclipse of the Self. In introducing me to a talk I was
f
to give to some Trainers, Erhard said that he had read more of my book than any book since
Shogun. Erhard has oft en acknowledged his debt to the Zen tradition. Heidegger was new
to him, but not to the Japanese, who have produced at least five translations of Heidegger’s 
Being and Time, because they sense a connection between sunyata and what Heidegger had in 
mind by nothingness (das Nichts) or the clearing that constitutes human existence.
12  My 1982 assessment of the Training can be found at: http://www.scribd.com/doc/72095792/
Est-A-Philosophical-Appraisal-by-Michael-Zimmerman#scribd.
13  Michael E. Zimmerman, “Heidegger, Ethics, and National Socialism,” The Southwestern Journal 
of Philosophy, V (Spring, 1974), 97–106.
y
14  Michael E. Zimmerman, Heidegger’s Confrontation with Modernity: Technology, Politics, Art
(Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1991).
15  Hans Sluga, Heidegger’s Crisis: Philosophy and Politics in Nazi Germany, German Politics and 
Society (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1993).
y
16  German editor of the Black Notebooks has asked to what extent Heidegger’s thought has been 
contaminated by what some call his “ontological anti-Semitism.”
17  See, for example, Edward E. Baptist, The Half Has Never Been Told: Slavery and the Making of 
American Capitalism (New York: Basic Books, 2014). 
18  On this issue, see my essay, “Authenticity and Duty in Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?” in
The Horizons of Authenticity in Phenomenology Existentialism, and Moral Psychology, eds. Hans 
Pedersen and Megan Altman,. Vol. 74 of Contributions to Phenomenology (Doredrecht and New
y
York: Springer, 2015), 75–92.  
AFTERWORD: ENDNOTES
1 
 Martin Heidegger, Being and Time, trans. John Macquarrie and Edward Robinson (New York: 
Harper & Row, 1962).
2 
 Michael E. Zimmerman, Eclipse of the Self: The Development of Heidegger’s Concept of 
Authenticity (Athens: Ohio University Press, 1981).
y
3 
 Baba Ram Dass, Be Here Now (New Mexico: Lama Foundation, 1971).
4 
 A distinction is made sometimes between kensho and satori. Kensho is a first taste of 
enlightenment, but one that must be continually cultivated and repeated. One transformation
experience is enough to get one started on the journey, but Buddhism argues that many
lifetimes are required to overcome the conditioning imposed by the three poisons, greed,
aversion and delusion.
5 
 Conversation with Werner Erhard, November 24, 2015.
6 
 In Heidegger and Theology (London and New York: 2014), Judith Wolfe shows that even
though Heidegger’s philosophy arose in constant critical dialogue with theology, Being and 
Time analyzes finite human existence, without reference to God. Heidegger’s contention 
that authentic existence involves Being-towards-death suggests an “eschatology without
eschaton.” In “The Facticity of Being God-Forsaken: The Young Heidegger and Luther’s
Theology of the Cross,” American Catholic Philosophical Quarterly, 79, 2 (2005), 273–290,
y
Sean J. McGrath argues that the task of phenomenology is to describe the Being of the fallen 
human, and also to depict the extent to which finite, fallen existence can be authentic.
Theology’s eschatological concern with salvation and a possibly eternal aft erlife are not 
matters of concern to philosophy, Heidegger concluded.
7 
 Humans are very good at recognizing patterns and making distinctions, but for patterns to
be experienced as meaningful, they must somehow matter to our Being-in-the-world. Our 
r
existence is always at stake for us, which is what Heidegger meant by saying that the very 
Being of humankind is care. Arguably, until computers exist in a clearing of their own, their 
distinction-making—no matter how much faster than human distinction-making—will have 
no significance for computers themselves. Computers are (not yet) at issue for themselves. 
See Michael E. Zimmerman, “Heidegger on Techno-Posthumanism: Revolt against Finitude? 
Or, Doing What Comes ‘Naturally’?” in Perfecting Human Futures: Technology, Secularization
and Eschatology, ed. J. Benjamin Hurlbut and Hava Tirosh-Samuelson (Dordrecht: Springer,
y
2015). In his books and many articles, Hubert Dreyfus has pioneered a Heideggerian critique of 
Artificial Intelligence.
8 
 Something similar is true for certain interpretations of Christianity. When Jesus called his 
followers “sons and daughters of God,” he aff irmed they were always already divine, although
y
cloaked in sin (analogous in some ways to rackets). As German philosopher G.W.F. Hegel put 
it two centuries ago, in a controversial interpretation, Jesus was the first person to awaken to 
his own divinity.


=== END OF PAGE 556 ===