=== PAGE 438 ===

424
SPEAKING BEING
KIPP
Yeah. He was there.
(laughter)r
Right. What the hell is he there for? That’s his job.
DOREL
The following night, I didn’t get angry. So what if it takes fi fteen minutes to let one car go.
KIPP
Right. If it takes fi fteen minutes, then it takes fi fteen minutes. And that’s the whole story. Get 
your car. Life is hard. And then you die. They throw dirt over your face, and that happens 
whether you get your car or not, whether you get it in two or fi fteen minutes.
DOREL (smiling)
I am just a goddamned bitcher and complainer in life. I get upset and angry and I bitch and
bitch and bitch and bitch.
KIPP
That’s right.
DOREL
So that’s the thing with me.
KIPP
Yeah. It’s interesting. You’re so honest in your speaking, it contributes to everybody in the room
a lot, Dorel. Your authenticity is powerfully contributing. It’s real. Makes a big diff erence for 
people. I was leading The Forum in London, and during the evening session after the four days,
a man stood and shared that his younger son came to him: “Daddy Daddy, Johnny hit me.” “Uh 
huh.” “But Daddy, you don’t understand, he hit me in the same place as before, where it really 
hurt!” “Uh huh.” “But Daddy, Johnny’s older and you said before he should know better not 
to hit me.” “Uh huh.” “Daddy, I don’t want you to go back to that seminar anymore because it 
makes you stupid!”
(laughter)r
DOREL (laughing)
Am I going to be stupid?
KIPP
Yes. What’s going to be stupid is: It’s going to take fi fteen minutes to get your car when it takes 
fi fteen minutes. And when you’re lost, you’ll be lost. And that’s life, yes? You don’t have to add 
simply one of the things that shows up in the clearing, that leaves
us free to be and free to act in life—free to be and free to act with
whatever we are dealing with in any situation.   This is critical for 
being a leader and exercising leadership eff ectively as one’s natu-
ral self-expression; and during the in-class sessions of the course 
access to this fundamental and essential nature of being for us 
human beings will be made available to you.
As was the case with the previous section (Section 2), during 
the course everything in this section will be gone over and made 
clear for you so that you can confirm its validity for yourself in
your own lived experience.  In addition, the critical importance of 
what has been covered in this section for being a leader and the 
eff ective exercise of leadership as your natural self-expression will
be dealt with in depth during the in-class sessions of the course. ■


=== END OF PAGE 438 ===