=== PAGE 117 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session One 
103
MIKE
Yes, I know how to walk.
ERHARD
Okay, tell me.
MIKE
No, I don’t know how to walk.
ERHARD
Okay good.
(to the group)
You’ve all got a lot of stupid notions. You’re a bunch of thoughtless people. You’ve given very 
little thought to anything of signifi cance. You have a lot of thoughts, but you don’t give thought.
So in here, you and I are going to give thought. Like most of the other people on the plan-
et, Mike never stopped to look at whether he knew how to walk: wasn’t too important to his 
walking, so why bother? But in here, some of the things you take for granted, we won’t take
those things for granted. See, it’s common sense that if a person walks they know how to. But 
Mike and I just reduced the idea of knowing how to walk to an absurdity. Maybe knowing how 
is not the pathway. You can’t produce art by the numbers. So getting back to this standing in a
possibility: you think it, not believe it or agree with it. You think it. You think: “people are ac-
complished in-order-to.” So what they get is avoiding the “order-to.” But avoiding the “order-to”
is the same as being attached to the “order-to.” Stand in there and take a look at life from there 
and think that, generate it as a possibility. Speak to yourself or others. Clear?
MIKE
Yes.
ERHARD
Thank you. That was a very useful conversation.
MIKE
Thank you.
(applause)
ERHARD (returning to Marsha)
So Marsha, you were saying?
MARSHA
I’m angry at everyone in the world, because what I know about each person in the world is that
they don’t like me. I’m angry at them.
Giving and Reflexion
In his use here of the word “gives,” Erhard is employing a term 
that was central in Heidegger’s eff orts to say the relationship of 
language to Being.
For anyone who has participated in the work of Werner Er-
hard, and has experienced the way that a particular combination
of words can make available a new perspective on the world, a
primary delight in reading Heidegger is surrendering to his precise 
and profoundly reflexive languaging. Its frequent circularity is 
consistent with its purpose, which is not to take us anywhere new, 
but to bring us “back to where we already are,” which, he warns, is
“infinitely harder.” His task is to “think Being without beings”—that
is, to bring Being to language as distinct from beings, a distinction
that has been lost to our metaphysical tradition. He wants to say 
Being; his task is therefore “unceasingly to overcome the obstacles
that tend to render such saying inadequate” (OTB 24). 
The Being of Language
One of these obstacles he confronts in undertaking this task is
found in the nature of language itself. Language was increasingly
the focus in Heidegger’s later writing, and his most well-known 
statement is his assertion that “Language is the House of Being”
(“LH” in BW 217). But what about the Being of language itself?
W
Here Heidegger articulates the conundrum:
“
 We speak of language, but constantly seem 
to be speaking merely about language, while 
in fact we are already letting language, from 
within language, speak to us, in language, of 
itself, saying its nature. (“NL” in OWL 85) 
Heidegger’s characteristic response to this aporic puzzle is to 
problematize it further, beginning with a line from the German 
poet Stefan George, which reasserts his own view of language:
“Where word breaks off  no thing may be.” He teases us into the
paradox created by this statement: if without language things can-
not be, then things are only when the word already is. But is a word 
a thing? On the one hand, it seems so: “if the word is to endow the
thing with being, it too must be before any thing is—thus it must


=== END OF PAGE 117 ===