=== PAGE 120 ===

106
SPEAKING BEING
go back out of here three days from now, and nobody’s gonna talk this straight to you. You’re 
going to go out and have those chicken shit conversations with people. So you want to get what 
you can out of this. And you aren’t going to be able to see this in yourself until you can see it
in Marsha. All that sadness of the fi fth grader is there right now. Marsha’s got a fi fth grader 
running her life. This is a mature, attractive, confi dent, accomplished woman with a fi fth grader 
calling the shots.
(to Marsha)
You were saying?
MARSHA
Suddenly there was a distinction. It was not okay with the other girls that I was not growing up. 
They starting getting in like a clique. And...
ERHARD
Talking behind your back and excluding you, and no longer was there that kind of loose easy 
sense of being with people. Now it was a drama to be with people: a kind of plot; a kind of 
strategy.
MARSHA
What I saw worked a little bit was to start getting happy, bubbly.
ERHARD
So this is pretty intelligent for a fi fth grader. It makes very good sense for a ten-year-old girl to
say the answer to this is to be happy all the time. You got to remember this is Marsha inventing
Marsha. This is Marsha inventing her identity. She has happiness as a way to push away sad-
ness. Then what happened?
MARSHA
As we grew up, they were the attractive ones, the cheerleaders; the boys were interested in 
them...
ERHARD
Listen up here, because this is about to get really stupid. Here is a really attractive woman who’s 
going to tell you she was not in with the girls who were attractive. Stupid in the sense that this 
is not logical.
MARSHA
Up until the fi fth grade I was called ___, after my ninety year old aunt who was an “old maid.”
ERHARD (to the group, lightly)
How come men are bachelors and women are called old maids? I don’t get it.
ERHARD (continuing)
In considering reflexive languaging, one is immediately reminded
of koan meditation—the process in which a Zen student is assigned
a single problematic phrase upon which he or she meditates until 
its embedded ontological hurdle has been made. The paradigmatic 
koan is the question, “What is the sound of one hand clapping?”
Heidegger’s paragraph above, considered carefully, pulls one
toward koan-like thinking.
Michael E. Zimmerman has likened Heidegger’s use of 
aporia—unresolvable problems—to the existential puzzles found
in koans. As an example, he cites the aporic conceptual dilem-
ma, central to Heidegger’s thought, that Being is inconceivable 
except as a being, and yet no being can be a being without a prior 
experience of its Being. As Zimmerman points out, the solution
to such aporia is beyond the capabilities of rational thought; and 
this is precisely the power of reflexion, that it turns the thinker’s
thinking reflexively in upon itself, demanding a diff erent kind of 
d
thinking and thus a diff erent thinker: “Before one can speak about 
the diff erence between Being and beings, it is crucial that one put 
oneself in the position of being able to experience that diff erence”
(“Heidegger and Heraclitus on Spiritual Practice” 100). Participants
in The Forum have put themselves in that position.
The experience of engaging one’s mind with a profoundly
relexive idea may be imagined as the process of revving an engine 
so hard that the torque sends it flying off  its mounts. This image 
calls to our minds the way participants in The Forum “get it” aft er 
several days of struggling to understand it conceptually.
Reflexive languagings, and the thinking they demand, are cen-
tral in the work of both Heidegger and Erhard. Erhard distinguishes 
thinking from having thoughts, and he hints at the diff erence using 
such languaging as “This statement is false,” “I always lie,” or “A
superstition is a superstition only when it isn’t a superstition, and
a superstition isn’t a superstition only when it is a superstition.”
Such statements call for thinking, call for the movement of thought
l
through the structure given in language. ■


=== END OF PAGE 120 ===