=== PAGE 257 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 243
ERHARD
You do what you do, and coincidentally it sometimes matches the story you’ve got about what 
you like to do. And what makes you stupid is to say, “When I’m good I do what I like to do and 
when I’m bad I do what I don’t like to do.” No. When you’re bad you’re bad and when you’re 
good you’re good. And don’t fuck it up with all that philosophical horseshit. That’s what he 
means by fi reside chat. That’s your racket Jacob. I know you think that’s the way to be. I know 
you think that’s the right way to be.
JACOB
No, it’s a way to be.
ERHARD
No, it’s not even a way to be. That’s just the way you are. 
JACOB
And if I do it another way, it’ll be another way.
ERHARD
But you won’t do it another way. You’ll do it the way you do it. That conversation is 
nonsensical. It gets you into trouble. Things are the way they are, and they are always not the 
way they’re not. And what you do is say that you do it to make life interesting; and not because 
that’s the right thing to say, but because that’s what you do. 
JACOB
But the one thing that I can control is...
ERHARD
But here’s the thing. You’re not getting the point, Jacob. You’re too engaged in the 
conversation. Listen to what’s not being said. There’s something to get out of the conversation 
and I’m not going to say it and you’re not going to say it. It’s going to be unsaid. And that’s 
what there is to get here. Otherwise you’re paying 625 dollars to pass on your philosophy to a 
guy who couldn’t care less. You paid him to pass on your philosophy.
JACOB
I paid 625 dollars to hear your philosophy.
ERHARD
No, I don’t have any philosophy. All I have is dog shit.
JACOB
How about my philosophy through you?
ERHARD
That’s horseshit. I don’t like philosophies. That’s more nah nah nah nah nah. Philosophies.
Heidegger’s languaging here may occur as tortured or as 
poppycock, unless we keep in mind the enigmatic nature of 
hints, which always beckon us away from that toward which 
they simultaneously point us; and of reflexive languaging, which 
creates perplexities to liberate our thinking. Under the rubric of the 
Same, Heidegger is distinguishing a way of listening for the world, 
and he invites us to follow:
To think is surely a peculiar aff air. The word of 
thinkers has no authority. The word of thinkers
knows no authors, in the sense of writers. The
word of thinking is not picturesque; it is with-
out charm. The word of thinking rests in the
sobering quality of what it says. Just the same,
thinking changes the world. It changes it in the
ever darker depths of a riddle, depths which 
as they grow darker off er promise of a greater 
brightness. (EGT 78)
“
We read in this passage an iteration of The Forum’s rhetorical 
process, which takes participants down one level at a time to 
confront the empty depths of the Nothing, before lighting the 
opening that has thereby been unconcealed.


=== END OF PAGE 257 ===