=== PAGE 482 ===

468
SPEAKING BEING
KIPP
Well done. Thank you very much!
KAREN
On my way down from Washington to do The Forum, the bus driver had heard of this work 
and he suggested to me that it was brainwashing and I shouldn’t do it. The fi rst day, I had that 
thought just a bit. I mean, brainwashing does happen. 
KIPP
Yes. Rub a dub dub. 
(laughter)
KAREN (becoming moved as she speaks)
Then I listened to the sharing, and I saw that if the work can call forth this kind of authenticity, 
and recognize that authenticity, then it’s got to be authentic. And it’s got to all be authentic. All 
of it. I want all of you who have stood up to share to get that it’s been such a huge contribution 
to see people having that kind of courage and willingness to step out and it really is profoundly 
moving to see people come up against pain and grief and fear and push through when they 
never thought they could, it’s extraordinary, and people are magnifi cent. I came to America to 
have adventures, and love and joy were not two things that were especially present in my life 
before coming here, and that’s what I got here.
KIPP
Thank you.
(applause)
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 13)
I’ve been participating in this work since 1975—that’s about half my life—and this is the greatest 
thing I ever did... the fi rst minute I was in the original program I knew I’d never seen anything 
like this, and I knew I’d be around this for a long, long time, and through the fourteen or fi fteen 
years that I’ve been participating, I’ve seen a lot of people get to that kind of moment where they 
lost touch with life or, sometimes we call it an incident, I’ve seen probably a hundred thousand 
people get to what it was for them, and I’ve never ever had a sense of what mine was, until today. I 
fi gured there was something wrong with me, after fourteen years you’d fi gure it would pass by, but 
it never came up, and I’d like to share it if I could. When people stand up and share about having 
a horrible childhood, and having these terrible things happen to them, I didn’t have anything like 
that. I had the greatest childhood in the world, the greatest parents, they told me they loved me all 
the time, they sent me to the best schools. When I was about four years old, I was in the fi rst grade 
because I could read and write, I was a really smart little kid, and I got great grades, I got on the 
honor roll all the time, and I got merit badges and merit pins, and awards, and I didn’t even know 
half the time what they were giving them to me for. It wasn’t like I was working hard, or like I 


=== END OF PAGE 482 ===