=== PAGE 312 ===

298
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
Sure. So it makes the conversation a bit hard for you to hear. But now that we’ve said that let’s 
do what you asked to have done and take a deeper look.
SUZANNE
Yes.
ERHARD
So, did it make sense—was it valid for you—what I said that you and I and everybody else, 
as little girls or boys, had experiences in which it’s entirely logically, so powerfully logical, so 
predictable that we’re going to conclude that there’s something wrong, that we could all accept 
that at some point in our childhood we did conclude that there’s something wrong here? Or was 
that the logic you were questioning?
SUZANNE
I’m not going to add to that statement. That’s a period. There’s something wrong here. But in 
addendum you said “there’s something wrong here and the achievement is there.” That premise 
is correct. 
ERHARD
Okay good, I’m just trying to fi nd out where the sticking point is.
SUZANNE
I agree with that premise. 
ERHARD
So then I said that it’s not a mere conclusion, I said that you become that there is something 
wrong. You are that there is something wrong. You know, you’re a four-year-old, a fi ve-year-
old, and become that there’s something wrong and it becomes the shaping ground of being for 
everything you built. See, you built a Suzanne, and I built a Werner, and he built whoever he is. 
And I did it over years. I had a certain aspect of me built by the time I was fi ve. I had another 
aspect of myself built by the time I was nine. By the time I was seventeen I was pretty much 
built. Everything I’ve done since I was seventeen has been additive. I’ve gotten a little better, or 
a lot better at those things I was good at, or the things I could be good at. In any case, around 
that age, seventeen or twenty, they’ve built their persona, they’ve built an identity, they’ve built 
a self. Okay, I said that that self that I built was built in response to the ground of being called 
there is something wrong here. 
SUZANNE
For this moment I will accept that and think about it. 
ERHARD
Okay. Let me just give you one thing. That’s an assertion. And an assertion deserves evidence, 
because an assertion is a promise that I’ve got evidence. So I’m going to give you my evidence. 


=== END OF PAGE 312 ===