=== PAGE 532 ===

518
SPEAKING BEING
Bill standing for what he got out of his participation in The Forum. Bill’s making all this 
up. There’s not one bit of it that’s not made up. Just like when the umpire says “strike”: It’s 
a strike because he said so. It’s not a report on the man’s internal state. That’s not the way 
I listen it. I listen him declaring himself, saying who he is in the matter of his participation 
in The Forum.
BILL
I had called a friend that I had told I was moving to Germany. I had lived there previously and 
was looking forward to it. My experience is not that I am going there because of anything: I get 
now that I choose to go there. 
ERHARD
Do you understand that’s just a way of speaking? But it’s not mere semantics as you would 
call it. “I’m going there because I’ve chosen to go there.” It’s just a way of speaking. He could 
say that he’s going there because he already made the commitment, or that it would be 
inconvenient to get out of going there. Or I made the commitment when I wanted to get away 
from being reminded that my brother died. Which one is empowering? Which one’s going to 
give Bill the most power? The most freedom to be?
BILL
I’d like to in the future use this experience to make choices for myself and not blame them 
on circumstances, and take complete responsibility for my life, and to experience the joy of 
each day, every day of my life: to look forward to each day with a possibility; to not have my 
happiness contingent upon anything I create or anything that I want in life. This is really giving 
me the framework for, the context...
ERHARD
Because you said so. It is because he said so. When he stops saying so it won’t be. Brilliant, Bill. 
Absolutely brilliant. Thank you for your generosity.
(applause)
(to the group)
The last step is the answer to the question, why can’t you say “I love you” to somebody? Because 
you’re too sincere to do that. And you won’t say “I love you” to somebody unless you really feel 
it, will you? I mean, that would be terrible, wouldn’t it? Saying “I love you” to people you didn’t 
feel love for, that would be insincere, wouldn’t it? That’s true insincerity. Saying “I love you” 
to people you don’t feel love for. That would be insincerity, right? That’s my proof for: You are 
your feelings. You get that? I just proved to you that you are your feelings. See, what you say isn’t 
insincere unless it’s an expression of your feelings. Which means you are that over which you’ve 
got no dominion. That’s what you are... I’m accusing you of being your feelings. I’m accusing 
you of being something over which you have nothing to say. I’m accusing you of being sincere, 
which I fi nd disgusting, because that’s what sincere is, sincere is identifying with the way you 
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 532 ===