=== PAGE 497 ===

Forum Day Four: Session Three 483
ERHARD
Good. It’s simple. I understand. Took you a long time to get that simplicity, yes? Anything is 
simple. It just takes a long time because we’ve got to get all the garbage out of the way. You 
didn’t get what I said even when you felt that you got what I said.
JERRY
I felt I wasn’t listening. I had the problem that I didn’t hear what you said. I wasn’t listening.
ERHARD
I understand. You didn’t hear me because you were listening to your barriers to hearing what I 
was saying. And the barriers to hearing what I was saying were provoked by what I was saying. 
We’ve been doing that for four days here. We say stuff  that we don’t expect you to get. We say 
stuff  designed to drive the barriers up in front of your face. Then we keep dealing with the 
barriers. Then you start to drop the barriers. Then all of a sudden it’s empty and meaningless, 
and then it’s like “well, obviously it’s empty and meaningless. Why didn’t you just say that in 
the beginning?”
(laughter)
Clear? Give me my ball back. Thanks.
(applause)
Let me say it all over again. Here’s what I want you to get out of this. Your actions are not the 
actions you want, or the actions you decide. They’re not a product of your past; your actions 
are a correlate of the world as an occurring, not the world as an is world, but the world as an 
occurring world. Your actions are perfectly correlated to the way the world occurs for you. If 
the world occurred for you like it occurs for the person you most despise, you would act like 
the person you most despise. No shit. Really. I know you think you’ve got goodness and all 
that bullshit inside you. Go to the doctor and have him open you up so you can see. Cut that 
noise out. Your actions are a correlate of the world as an occurring. You want me to throw the 
dictionary a couple more times so you can see? Now the question is, “Well, what generates this 
occurring?” We’re going to get to that, but not until you get... see you’re almost as stupid as you 
were when you came in here, because you’re sitting out there trying to decide whether you 
agree with this or not.
(laughter)
“Is that right? Do I agree with that? I practiced tennis for ten years, and that practice really 
made me a good player. And I remember learning buh buh buh, and that made me better at 
that.” Wrong! The practice and the learning alters the occurring. Staying in the conversation 
Jerry and I were having: you know, you train an athlete. Most people train athletes like they’re 
grooving in behavior, so you do it repetitively, that’s what training is, right? Repetition. So you 
do it over and over and over again so you can do it automatically. Horseshit. Anything you do 
automatically lacks skill, lacks power. You wouldn’t want an athlete who acted automatically. 
You want an athlete free to act with the world he or she has to act within. What happens is, 
Your actions are not the actions you want, or 
the actions you decide. They’re not a product 
of your past; your actions are a correlate of the
world as an occurring, not the world as an is
world, but the world as an occurring world.
“


=== END OF PAGE 497 ===