=== PAGE 241 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 227
KIPP
Yesterday you saw something about not caring.
ANGEL
I saw that it was okay to care sometimes and sometimes I don’t.
KIPP
Right. 
ANGEL
It’s not okay to have life mean something sometimes and for sometimes life not to mean 
anything.
ERHARD
It never means anything. It doesn’t mean something sometimes and not mean something at 
other times. Life is empty and meaningless.
ANGEL
Then why should I be alive? Then I shouldn’t be alive. Dead.
KIPP
Then you would be dead. 
ERHARD
You know what you just did? I said life is empty and meaningless and you made that mean 
something. I said life was empty and meaningless and you got sad about it. “Really? Ohh. We’ll 
maybe I’ll just lie down now and watch television.” 
ANGEL
And so just because you say life is meaningless I should believe it? 
ERHARD
I didn’t say to believe anything. Didn’t I tell you up front not to believe anything I say?
ANGEL
Yes, I forgot.
ERHARD
The truth speaks for itself, it does not need me. At any rate, when I said “empty and 
meaningless,” you said, “oh my God, oh that’s terrible.” You made empty and meaningless 
mean something. You’re a drama queen.
ANGEL (vehemently)
Yes, I am.
Man, insofar as he exists as man, has always 
already spoken out about physis [Being],
about the prevailing whole to which he himself 
belongs. Man has done so not only through 
the fact and for the purpose of talking specifi-
cally about things; for to exist as man already
means: to make whatever prevails come to be 
spoken out. (FCM 26, emphasis added)
“
In order to be spoken about, beings must be spoken out. For the 
Greeks, “speaking is called legein; the prevailing that has been 
spoken out is the logos” (FCM 26). But Heidegger suggests a more 
original meaning for both words: legein, in its original meaning, was 
not to speak, but to gather and collect, or to lay out; Logos, as what 
is gathered and laid before us, was the primary gathering principle. 
This “original” meaning of logos, then, draws our attention to 
whatever is there before it is articulated—before the emergence 
of judgment, the assertion of opinion, and the contradiction of 
perspectives. These are all of course inevitable. But the writing 
of the pre-Socratics suggests to Heidegger that at the dawn of 
humanity, something was available to human apprehension, a 
logos, which now escapes us. 
For Heraclitus, it was the logos, the background of collected-
ness, the sway in the event of its emergence into the world. The 
meaninglessness from which beings emerge cannot maintain 
itself in a world of meaning, but for a moment in history, for those 
who were open to its emergence, it was glimpsed. Heraclitus 
suggests that it remains available, but that human beings as a 
whole—the hoi polloi—are unavailable for glimpsing it.
But while logos constantly remains itself, 
human beings behave as those who do not 
comprehend (axunetoi), both before they have
heard and aft er they have heard. . . . Hence one 
must follow the Together in beings—that is, 
adhere to it; but whereas logos essentially un-
folds as this Together in beings, the mass lives 
as if each had his own understanding (sense). 
(Heraclitus, fragments 1–2, in IM 140–141)
“


=== END OF PAGE 241 ===