=== PAGE 489 ===

Forum Day Four: Session Three 475
SHERYL
Yes.
ERHARD
That’s the point.
ERHARD
You and I dwell in, you and I come from, you and I are that the source of action is something 
inside of people. Is that clear? Like I said before, this is a corollary, a harmonic, an “also.” I’m 
going to tell you what I said before because it’s an “also”: That there’s a world out there that is a 
certain way and that my job is to get the representation of the world in here...
(pointing both hands at his head)
...which is accurate because I act out of the representation in here on what’s out there. And if 
my representation is accurate I will be eff ective in acting with what’s out there. Is that clear? 
You don’t think that; you don’t need to: You are that. You are that there’s a world out there, like 
an is world: The world is like this. And it isn’t like that. And my job is to get the representation 
in here or here, 
(pointing to his head and then his heart)
or wherever you think representations are, and my job is to get it out in the world out there 
accurately. And some people have more wisdom and more knowledge and more insight than 
others. And there are those of us who are arrogant enough to think that we have a special 
perspective on the world that allows us to see it rightly: “Those other fools who have just got 
it wrong because they’ve got the wrong perspective. Now I’ve got it right, you see?” At any 
rate, it’s all the same thing. It’s all that my actions are a product of what I know, or of my 
experience, but something inside of me, or the qualities I have. You know, smart, talented, 
whatever it is; or stupid, clumsy. You see, clumsy is a quality inside people, isn’t it? They walk 
around with it. It’s ready to put to use whenever they need it. That’s the way you and I are 
that it is. You and I are that it is like that. Is everybody clear about that now? And then the 
corollary: There’s a world out there that is a certain way—what I call an is world—can you 
hear “is world”?—an is world rather than a made-up world. There’s an is world; it is a certain 
way—and my job is to get a representation in here that’s accurate because I act out of what’s 
in here. If what’s in here is accurate then I’ll be eff ective with what’s out there. Does anybody 
not get that? 
(pausing)
So now we’re going to do a demonstration to look at the source of action, and we’re going to 
fi nd out that the source of action is not in here. So I say that the source of action is not in here, 
that you don’t have any qualities in you at all. All you’ve got is entrails. Guts. Goop. That’s 
what’s inside. Now that’s aff ronting, isn’t it? That’s aff ronting to who you are, because you 
are that there’s something inside called qualities and experience and talent and know-how 
and intelligence: because that’s the standard interpretation which you are. So I’m saying this 
present and so becomes the highest being pres-
ent. [. . .] Ultimately, presencing as such is not
distinguished from what is present: it is taken
merely as the most universal or the highest of 
present beings, thereby becoming one among
such beings. The essence of presencing, and
with it the distinction between presencing and 
what is present, remains forgotten. The oblivion 
of Being is oblivion of the distinction between 
Being and beings. (EGT 50)
But Heidegger hastens to add:
However, oblivion of the distinction is by no
means the consequence of a forgetfulness
of thinking. Oblivion of Being belongs to the 
self-veiling essence of Being. [. . .] This means
that the history of Being begins with the 
oblivion of Being, since Being—together with
its essence, its distinction from beings—keeps
to itself. The distinction collapses. It remains
forgotten. (EGT 50)
“
Here, some light is shed into the clearing of our question: why does 
the experience of transformation that is made available in The Forum 
occur as perpetually elusive? 
What gradually became forgotten was Being’s other aspect: 
its nature as emerging, its presencing and withdrawal, the not-
Being which is always the other side of Being. Beings became 
understood as permanent presence; lost was the recognition 
that the maintenance of the originary power of Being depended 
upon the persistence of the struggle, so that the event is 
continuously regenerated. Unconcealment is not a once-and-for-all 
accomplishment:


=== END OF PAGE 489 ===