=== PAGE 535 ===

Forum Day Four: Session Three 521
For example, if I really meant to do it, that’s just as good for you as if I did it. You can’t even 
tell the diff erence. You don’t relate to people out of what they produce, you relate to people out 
of their sincerity. No shit. So. There’s another possibility. And the other possibility is an Age 
of Integrity. That’s diff erent than the age of sincerity. In the age of integrity you are your word. 
Real simple. You just got clear that who you are is your feelings, your attitudes, your states of 
mind, your internal state. In the age of integrity you are your word. That means you honor your 
word as yourself. You’ve got to get that, because if you don’t you won’t get the rest of what I’m 
going to say. You’ve got to get it abstractly. Not conceptually, but just the way I say it. You’ve got 
to create the possibility of actually being your word. Not the idea of being your word. Not the 
option of being my word. I am my word. I’ve got feelings, and I’ve got thoughts and attitudes 
and a state of mind, and I have a hand. I am not my hand. I take care of my hand, I enjoy my 
hand, I celebrate my hand, but I’m not my hand. And I have feelings. I take care of my feelings, 
I enjoy my feelings, I celebrate my feelings, but I’m not my feelings, or my states of mind, or 
my moods any more than I’m my hand. In an age of integrity you would be your word and you 
would honor your word as your self: You wouldn’t honor your feelings as your self, you would 
honor your word as your self. You would be your word and you would have feelings. Not be 
your feelings. You be you word and have feelings like you have a hand. You would have feelings, 
and have thoughts, and have an attitude, and have a state of mind, and you wouldn’t be that. So 
instead of your life being shaped by your thoughts and feelings and attitudes, your life would 
be shaped by your word. Because your word would be the context in which the world occurs, 
and your feelings and your actions and your thoughts would be a correlate of an occurring that 
arose in a world created by your word. So you would be able to love somebody just by saying so. 
See, if I am my word and I say “I love you,” I love you. And it’s got power that your feelings will 
never have. No diff erent than feeling “I love you.” See, if who you are is feeling, feeling “I love 
you” is the same as if who you are is your word saying “I love you.” The same except that being 
your feelings will never have the power that being your word has, because you’ve got something 
to say about your word, and ain’t got shit to say about what you feel. When you start to honor 
your word as yourself, live as your word, be your word, I don’t mean some silly moral horseshit 
about keeping your word. You see this is only a possibility: You can’t struggle toward this; you 
can’t set this up as a goal; you can’t try to achieve this; you can’t pray for this. You’ve got to 
live in the possibility of this, because that’s the only way it will work. To live in the possibility, 
to live from the possibility of being your word, and having your feelings, and your thoughts, 
and your state of mind, and having your attitude, et cetera. It gives you power to love people, 
rather than have love for them. It makes your word kind of sacred, and it gives you access to 
the sacred. Being happy is a sacred state. See, if you are your word, you can say “I am happy” 
and you are happy. And it ain’t a bunch of fucking words: It’s your self. It’s no diff erent than 
reporting on your internal state. If what you are is your internal state, then to say “I’m happy,” 
you’ve got to have an internal state called happy. But if you’re your word, you’re happy because 
you say you’re happy: I am happy.” Your feelings and your attitudes and your state of mind and 
your thoughts and your hand start to line up with your word. I don’t assess my feelings. I don’t 
address my feelings to fi nd out who I am. I don’t look at my hand to fi nd out who I am either. I 
also don’t look at my nose or my feet to fi nd out who I am. I don’t look at my feelings to fi nd out 
who I am. And my hand lines up with who I am and so do my feelings, and so do my thoughts. 
So I’m leaving you at this juncture of The Forum with the possibility of honoring your word as 
ERHARD (continuing)
In an age of integrity you would be your word 
and you would honor your word as your self:
You wouldn’t honor your feelings as your self,
you would honor your word as your self. You 
would be your word and you would have feel-
ings. Not be your feelings. You be you word and
have feelings like you have a hand. You would
have feelings, and have thoughts, and have
an attitude, and have a state of mind, and you 
wouldn’t be that. So instead of your life being
shaped by your thoughts and feelings and atti-
tudes, your life would be shaped by your word.
“


=== END OF PAGE 535 ===