=== PAGE 500 ===

486
SPEAKING BEING
ART (having caught the dictionary)
I just reacted.
ERHARD
That’s your explanation. There wasn’t any reaction. There was a dictionary and hands. You 
made up “reaction.” That’s your story about what happened. All that happened was a dictionary 
fl ying and your hands moving. 
ART
Yes.
ERHARD
You didn’t say to yourself, “Oh, put the microphone under my arm, reach out my hands...” None 
of that happened. None of your athletic experience there either. Not one bit of it was there, was 
it? 
ART
No.
ERHARD
No. Nothing. What was there was fl ying dictionary and moving hands; because your hands—
the motion of your hands—are a correlate of the dictionary as an occurring. Suppose the 
dictionary... give me my dictionary back.
(laughter as Erhard receives the dictionary back from Art)
If I throw the dictionary at you so you can’t catch it, what are you going to do? You’re going to 
go like this, aren’t you?
(fl inching)
Not like you did the last time. Why? Because you’re not athletic? No, because the dictionary 
occurs as uncatchable, and your actions are perfectly correlated with an uncatchable dictionary. 
Got it?
ART
Yes, but it just seems foggy. Like I’m always trying to come up with an answer for everything. 
I don’t want to use the wrong words here. I can understand but I want to come up with an 
answer for it.
ERHARD
No, you want to put it to use. You mean, “Shit, I can’t fi gure out a way to use this yet.”
ART
Well, I don’t see how to apply it to my life.
And in What Is Called Thinking he posits that
. . .the essence of technology is not anything
human. The essence of technology is above 
all not anything technological. The essence of 
technology lies in what from the beginning and
before all else gives food for thought. It might
then be advisable, at least for the time being,
to talk and write less about technology, and
give more thought to where its essence lies, so
that we might first find a way to it. The essence
of technology pervades our existence in a way
which we have barely noticed so far. (WCT 22)
“
Heidegger concludes this thought with a reversal: “Our age is not 
a technological age because it is the age of the machine, it is an 
age of the machine because it is the technological age” (WCT 24). 
We are reminded of one of the central rhetorical figures Erhard 
employs throughout The Forum, in many instances, wherein the 
commonplace understanding we have of ourselves as conscious 
agents of our lives is thrown into question: “You don’t think it; it 
thinks you.” As our thinking enters into this antithetical “figure of 
thought”—which rhetoricians term chiasmus—again and again 
during the course of The Forum, this way of thinking, as a technology 
of transformation, opens us toward new possibilities to be.
But if we hold this figure of thought at a distance, refusing 
to follow its course, it loses any of its transformational power. As 
scholar Hubert Dreyfus observes, Heidegger’s position with regard 
to technology is easily misunderstood as a position, when it is 
more appropriate to follow it as a movement. Dreyfus writes that 
Heidegger’s “view is so radical that one is tempted to translate 
it into conventional platitudes about the evils of technology, so 
Heidegger’s ontological concerns are mistakenly assimilated to 
ontic humanistic threats about the devastation of nature, the 
atomic threat, the media, consumerism, et cetera” (“Gaining a 


=== END OF PAGE 500 ===