=== PAGE 273 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 259
MOLLY
What I got about my relationship with God? Well, my racket is that everyone abandoned me, 
including God. You have to buy love. And I was told you had to serve God to make God happy 
so he’d love you.
ERHARD (to the group)
Somehow, way back in history when all this God stuff  got started, God got turned into a story. I 
invite you to consider the possibility that the story somehow served the transmission process in 
those primitive times. This notion rings very hollow for me. Nevertheless, for people like you 
and me to be living those stories is disgusting and sacrilegious. To reduce an infi nite possibility 
into some crap story... That’s the end of my sermon.
MOLLY
I’ve spent a lot of years serving.
ERHARD
The only time serving is nurturing is when you’re serving to serve, not serving in-order-to. 
MOLLY
What I saw was that everybody was getting served except me, and I was getting exhausted. 
ERHARD
I don’t know that being stuck with God is a good thing. Free to might be a more appropriate 
relationship to God than have to. 
(to Molly)
But that’s your business. My business is dog shit. 
MOLLY
Apparently mine is too.
(laughter)
So when I saw that I had taken on this job to make God happy...
ERHARD (laughing)
Isn’t that ridiculous? This is a very good discussion. Go ahead.
MOLLY
And when I saw how ridiculous it was and how tired I was getting...
ERHARD
I got tired making God happy. It’s a new book. Look, you understand that Molly’s probably 
produced more freedom in people’s relationship with God in the last fi fteen minutes than she 
has in her whole life? She’s giving some room to be by sharing. She did it by sharing herself, 
not her fucking platitudes, not her beliefs. 
God
Here, Erhard is assuring that the “trap” that The Forum sets for 
participants—the trap of the current paradigm, in which Forum 
participants must find themselves hopelessly ensnared before 
they can access the liberation of transformation—is experienced 
as inescapable. Even God, for many still the most sacred of values, 
must finally fall victim to the demands of standing-reserve. As 
perceived through the metaphysical-technological lens of Western 
thought, God is inevitably burdened with the entailments of 
that paradigm. First, “He” becomes an unattainable ideality (the 
Creator who, in Heidegger’s view, is an extension of the Platonic 
notion of ideal form); and, at the same time, “He” is placed in 
standing-reserve, along with everything else in the technological 
clearing, and thus can be loved and worshiped only in-order-to—
that is, for salvation, forgiveness, eternal reward, and so forth. ■


=== END OF PAGE 273 ===