=== PAGE 533 ===

Forum Day Four: Session Three 519
feel and the way you think, and the way you see things, about which you’ve got nothing to say. 
Nothing. In fact the way you see things has to do with the way you were when you were a little 
girl or a little boy. Anybody not clear about that? I say you can’t say “I love you” to somebody 
without checking your feelings, because if you say “I love you” to somebody and you didn’t 
feel like it, that would be insincere, inauthentic for you; because your love is an expression of 
your feelings. Who you are is your feelings. Who you are is your internal state. Anybody not 
clear about the accusation? Good. Now I want to talk to you about a possibility beyond that 
accusation, which arises in getting clear about the accusation. Anybody want to tell me they’re 
not clear about the accusation now that they know what the consequences are? Stand up. 
RALPH
Can you repeat the accusation?
ERHARD
Sure. I said you can’t say “I love you” to a guy you don’t know—you can’t walk up to someone 
you don’t know and say “I love you,” because it’s not true! It’s just a bunch of words. Unless 
you feel love for somebody you can’t say “I love you” and have it be authentic. I say that that’s 
incontrovertible, clear cut evidence that you are your feelings. That’s who you are. You are your 
internal state: your feelings, and your thoughts, and your attitudes. That’s who you are.
RALPH
Because you can say “I love you” without authenticity...
ERHARD
Because you can’t say “I love you” without feeling it.
RALPH
And be authentic.
ERHARD
And be authentic. Precisely. But when you say “authentic,” you mean say yourself “honestly,” 
right?
RALPH
Yes.
ERHARD
And if you say “I love you” to somebody and you don’t feel it, that’s not saying yourself 
honestly. Therefore it must be true that you are your feelings.
RALPH
That’s where I miss it. It’s that connection I miss.
Transformation as Technology
In the face of this subjection to the technological way of Being, 
what is there for us to do? Certainly, any action can never have as 
its objective the “mastery” of technology. “That would mean, aft er 
all, that man was the master of Being” (“TT” in QCT 38). Besides, as 
Dreyfus observes, the more we try to master technolo gy, the more 


=== END OF PAGE 533 ===