=== PAGE 86 ===

72
SPEAKING BEING
to start with the second question. But you can’t get to the possibility until you own what you 
already always are. The pathway—concrete, authentic, real—is to embrace what you already 
always are.
(pausing)
The problem is that if you move forward from where you are, all you’re doing is changing. The 
medium in which you create may be something, but the source of creation is nothing. I had the 
privilege of having a relationship with Dick Feynman, the physicist. He took one note the whole 
time I knew him: “There are certain things you can only know by creating them.” As a matter 
of fact, when he died that note was on his blackboard. That was just my best moment.
(pausing)
When I use the term possibility, I mean stuff in the dimension of “don’t know that you don’t 
know.” So that’s what The Forum is about. In the first question, you move backwards. And it 
begins with being authentic about your own inauthenticity. To the degree that you’re not able 
to be with your own inauthenticity, to that degree you are unable to be. Where’s Jake? I want 
to identify the conversation we were having. He’s a fine guy. And yet, I’m saying that there’s 
something possible in that area he has a lot of interest that is denied to him because he can’t be 
“I don’t do what I said I would do.” I didn’t say that was true about him. That’s not important. 
What’s important is that he can’t be there yet. Whatever you’re not able to be with won’t let you 
be. So the degree to which you are not able to be with your inauthenticity, to that degree you 
are prevented from being. You’re stuck being this, so there’s nothing else you can be. Or you’re 
stuck not being that, so there’s nothing else you can be except not that. You’re like a Johnny 
one-note “not-that.” Not-that is way more attached than have-to-be-that.
I get this as a dance. I’m uncomfortable. I don’t know where to put my feet. It’s extremely un-
comfortable to be in that “don’t know that you don’t know.”
ERHARD
So “don’t know that you don’t know” is uncomfortable. Ever jumped out of an airplane? It’s 
uncomfortable. It’s also a lot of fun. 
PARTICIPANT
I’m starting to ask myself, “what is worthwhile?”
ERHARD
That’s a great question: A question to live with. If you live with that question for the rest of your 
life, your life will have a quality that it won’t have without it. You ask the question for the light 
the question gives.
“ 
To the degree that you’re not able to be with 
your own inauthenticity, to that degree you
are unable to be.
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 86 ===