=== PAGE 186 ===

172
SPEAKING BEING
KIPP
Whether it’s convincing you or harassing you, neither ever happened. In the sense of what 
happened, your brother spoke to you. 
BETTY
In a sense it didn’t and in another sense it did. 
KIPP
It’s called describing it. He spoke to you. 
(to the group)
What she just shared with you just about never happens after two days of anything in your life. 
This isn’t a new situation; this is, however, many years between her and her brother and two 
days. It’s hard to be present to that; it’s hard to see because it seems like two years. 
BETTY
I hated being here the fi rst two days. 
KIPP
No you didn’t... You had those thoughts. Did you have anything to do with any of those 
thoughts? 
BETTY
No.
KIPP
No. It was like the rain.
BETTY
It was like the rain.
KIPP
Stop identifying with the rain.
ERHARD (entering the conversation)
He’s making a slightly diff erent point, and it would be useful for everybody to get it. That’s not 
you thinking. The stuff  going on in your head is not yours. It doesn’t belong to you. You didn’t 
invent it, or generate it. It’s thoughts you’re having. I want you to be able to think that what’s 
going on when you’re thinking is not you thinking. You’re having thoughts. It thinks. I’m having 
the thoughts it thinks. In the book, The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat—there was such 
a man—he actually thought his wife was a hat. And you mistake it thinking for you thinking. 
Not you personally. People mistake it thinking for them thinking just like the guy who mistook 
his wife for a hat. You have to do some thinking to get that. It thinks, and you have the thoughts 
that it thinks. You want to stop being so entangled in your thinking. You want to be able to 
IN-ORDER-TO
Here Erhard is characterizing the current clearing for Being as 
calculative—as technological—wherein everything is placed in 
reserve, standing by, ready to be used—everything including our 
selves (please see the series of sidebars on technology during the
third and final session of Day Four). Since we have not recognized
the technological clearing as a paradigm, a particular way of being 
which we have been sent, we see it as simply the way things—
including our selves—are. The in-order-to of standing-reserve, not 


=== END OF PAGE 186 ===