=== PAGE 212 ===

198
SPEAKING BEING
The Forum resumed at 12:55 pm. Wes was on the platform, and called for participants to share about 
having called their parents or others in their lives to “get complete.”
PRESTON
I think I’ve had what’s called a breakthrough. I will try to contextualize it using the language I 
am learning here.
WES
Why don’t you just share it?
PRESTON
I always feel better after a disclaimer. I was in New Jersey two weeks ago and Werner was there. 
On the blackboard was written: “I am prepared to be the man I haven’t been, and I won’t be the 
man I was.” And what came to me as I was settling up with my parents is that I chose to honor 
the integrity of the process.
WES
What’s happening in The Forum could be called coaching. That’s the conversation The Forum 
leaders are committed to. Very few people in life are coachable. Children are uncoachable. 
Because every time you say anything to them they say, “I know.” And very few of us ever grow 
out of that. Making oneself coachable is an act of generosity.
PRESTON
It was an act of trust. I got that as soon as the fl oor is raised by one of us, it aff ects all of us. 
There’s a redundancy of overlap that makes for perfect survival. I felt the mechanism of the 
fl oor. My racket is manipulation: When it comes to relationships with women, fi rst I fascinate, 
then I entice sexually, and then I become emotionally unavailable. But I’m able to be with 
that now. The boss racket I run is manipulation. The way I am in the world is manipulation. 
And the way that it is, is that you can have anything in the world as long as it isn’t touched by 
manipulation. The manipulation that I’ve crafted into a high art turns out to be the only thing 
that can sabotage what really exists, which is, you can have it, just don’t tell a story, have it, go 
about the steps to have it. I completed with my parents, who are both gone. I see that I’ve got 
doubts to meet every situation, but I’ve also begun listening. I want to acknowledge you all for 
the privilege. 
WES
So you want to hear in people’s speaking: The Forum. That’s the whole Forum. So now he’s 
going into the bonus land. He got the whole Forum. You don’t even have to remember what he 
said. What you want to see is The Forum working in people’s speaking, and allow yourself to be 
used by it. Joyce?
JOYCE
Yesterday, I was clear that I was complete with my father, who had passed away. Then I 
looked at my mother, and saw that she is perfect the way she is, and that I was complete with 
FORUM DAY THREE: 
SESSION TWO


=== END OF PAGE 212 ===