=== PAGE 393 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
379
KIPP
Yeah.
PRESTON
But being with it so that I can operate from the box I call choice. 
KIPP
When we get to this conversation about choice, being with choice, we’ll come back to that one. 
Okay. Anything more for you, Preston?
PRESTON
No.
KIPP
Thank you.
(applause)
KIPP
So, we’re asking you to look at where in your life you have had reasons for not participating,
that’s the question at hand. And we’re distinguishing this distinction called reasonableness.
BARRY
It’s been entirely reasonable for me to keep myself distinct from people. Separate, not distinct.
KIPP
Yeah, separate.
BARRY
There’s a sense of being protected, of protecting myself. I feel like I’m not going to get sucked 
into things that I don’t want to get sucked into. I choose the game; I choose the way it’s played. 
KIPP
By the way, you don’t choose it.
BARRY
I decide what game to play...
KIPP
You use the evidence that’s given to you by your racket, and examine that evidence, and the
product of that evidence has you do what you do. And the product of that evidence is “lots of 
reasons.”
When we are there with a being in the moment of its undistorted
emerging, prior to assertions—that begins to get at what is meant
by Aletheia: a free way of encountering beings that allows them to 
be the things they are.
However, according to Thomas Sheehan, in his book Making
Sense of Heidegger, there are not just two, but three ways in which
Heidegger treats Aletheia, which will prove useful in an analysis of 
The Forum’s methodology. We remind the reader, as we have done 
throughout this book, that we are talking about a realm that has 
no levels. When talking about the realm of Being, Werner Erhard 
has said, all we can do is lie (“All I Can Do Is Lie.”). But that does not 
mean we should stop talking, and Thomas Sheehan has opened
some interesting possibilities for thinking. Sheehan proposes that 
Aletheia may be thought of as having three levels—that is, that
there are three ways of understanding what Heidegger meant 
when dealing with the “truth”:
Aletheia 1, Aletheia 2, and Aletheia 3.
Aletheia 3 refers to the correctness of a statement—the 
correspondence of a proposition with the state of aff airs to which
it refers. This definition glosses many aspects of evaluation and 
judgment, of course, but it is what we generally mean when we 
use the word “truth” in our everyday conversations. Aletheia 3
also indicates the average level of truth we expect in our everyday 
coping in the world, and it is the kind of truth that operates within
our “stories.”
Aletheia 2 is the pre-propositional meaningful presence of 
things in the world, the realm of inescapable meaning in which
we live our lives. For human beings, everything means something, 
that is, can be understood as something. Aletheia 2 is the kind of 
truth that emerges when participants distinguish “what hap-
pened” as distinct from their story about what happened.
Aletheia 1 is existential openness, the realm of unspoken
meaninglessness. This is the context for the other two realms, and
Sheehan calls this context the “unique presence-by-absence of the 
thrown-open clearing” (Thomas Sheehan, Making Sense of Heideg-
ger 75). This is the groundless ground of our humanity, Being’s gift :
r
the Nothing.


=== END OF PAGE 393 ===