=== PAGE 251 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 237
JACOB
No, no, no, I’m attracted to... I like the idea...
KIPP
So what if you like the idea? Why do you like it?
JACOB
Because it’s light-hearted. Taking the drama out of it...
KIPP
It’s like morning TV instead of afternoon TV. Doesn’t matter. 
JACOB
Yeah, I know, what I’m saying is because I like your philosophy, I’m going to have to try to 
make it meaningful...
KIPP
I don’t have a philosophy. 
JACOB
Then what were you talking about? 
KIPP
What I was saying. You think this is a philosophy. No philosophy here. Or if it is, it’s not The 
Forum. See, this is fi reside chats with Jacob. This is your little place where you hang out. This 
is your meaning you’re holding onto with your fi ngernails and your toes and everything else. 
It’s all in a nice neat box, the same as Angel. And for everyone else here in the room, what you 
should get is that this is what yours sounds like too, just your version of it. 
ERHARD
This is not a philosophy. This is not a view of life. This is not one of the many views. This 
is not another religion. That’s not what this is. It doesn’t replace or negate anything. It’s 
more like dog shit than it is like philosophy—something to step in. If you treat it like 
philosophy, you’ll fuck it up. If you’re going to treat it like something, treat it like dog shit. 
Step in it.
KIPP
As you were saying, Jacob...
JACOB
I was just thinking that I should sit down because as long as I’m standing I’m going to want an 
answer to all this.
The Same
In suggesting that the experiences evoked in The Forum and in 
the est Training are at some level the same, we are venturing into 
important and precarious Heideggerian territory. Werner Erhard 
suggested the nature of this territory in a 1983 interview, when 
challenged to compare the est Training with other enlightenment 
systems, such as Zen:
I think that discussions about enlightenment 
are useless, and I think making enlightenment 
sacred is even more futile. My question is, what’s 
this conversation all about? . . . We’re not really 
talking about anything. I don’t know how else to 
respond to you. You can’t ask, “Is this enlighten-
ment like that enlightenment?” That’s counting
enlightenments. That’s nuts! (Network Review, 
1:4, September 1983, emphasis added)
“


=== END OF PAGE 251 ===