=== PAGE 245 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 231
This, then, is what is happening in our speaking out: we speak out 
from concealment; we unconceal a world of beings. How fortunate we 
are that we have the ability to create meanings, and can thereby live in 
a world of culture and technology, and reap their benefits. 
But there is of course a qualifier to the promise in this 
situation, which Heidegger finds elsewhere in Heraclitus’ writing:
ERHARD
Zen bullshit.
ANGEL
I’m from California.
ERHARD
That’s right. What was the last thing you said Kipp?
KIPP
You’re attached to being attached.
ERHARD (indicating Angel)
It was you. An emerging bit of light here. Attached to meaning. That’s what it was. He said you 
were attached to meaning, and you said yesterday I was attached to caring and that made it 
mean something. And today I’ve gotten down an even more fundamental level, “I’m attached 
to meaning.” 
ANGEL
Yeah.
ERHARD
Yeah. You are attached to meaning. That’s what there is to get. You are stuck with meaning. 
You have no freedom. Everything’s got to be made to mean something. Everything’s got to be 
made signifi cant. That’s the drama queen.
ANGEL
I don’t see what’s left.
ERHARD
So I’m gonna tell you. You want to know what’s left? Nothing. What’s left is nothing. I told you 
we were going to work our way back to zero. This is zero. 
ANGEL
I can’t be with zero.
ERHARD
I know. I told you it made me real sad. It’s not going to be all right. It’s going to be the way it is. 
What there is to be with is that life is empty and meaningless. That’s what there is to be with. It 
is not going to turn out. It is not going to be all right. It’s going to be whatever fucking way it is. 
However it is.
ANGEL
No matter what I do? 
Being loves to hide. Why this is so is a question for which Heidegger 
does not specify an answer, since the question must be left  open. 
In the swinging of that open question, thinking may distinguish 
new paths into Being. For example, if The Forum is a conversation 
for the emergence of Being, and if Being strives to conceal itself, 
then interesting implications emerge about the nature of The 
Forum experience, which we continue to explore and unfold in 
these sidebars and intervals. ■
[I]f prevailing is torn from concealment in the
logos, then it must, as it were, try to conceal 
itself. The very same Heraclitus tells us in
addition . . . why physis came to be revealed 
and torn from concealment explicitly in legein. 
In the collection of fragments one sentence
stands alone which to this day has never been 
understood or comprehended in its profundity: 
“The prevailing of things has in itself a striving 
to conceal itself.” (FCM 27, emphasis added)
“


=== END OF PAGE 245 ===