=== PAGE 352 ===

338
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
They do say that but it doesn’t make any diff erence anyhow. 
(applause)
And let me tell you what they learn from you, Kevin. Young people don’t learn from our 
preaching. They learn from who we are. You know, you can’t miss your magnanimity. You 
cannot miss it; it can’t be missed. 
KEVIN
My magnanimity?
ERHARD
Yes, your magnanimity. 
KEVIN
I’ll have to work on that a little later. If I can get that together with my stinginess, that’s gonna 
take a lot of work. 
ERHARD
Remember one thing. Stinginess is not a quality inside you. It’s a product of your actions. And 
magnanimity is the same thing. You give yourself being big when you get off  it. When you’re 
being moved in here by other people’s sharing, you can’t help it. I suppose you might be able 
to do it, but it would be very diffi  cult to be in here and not be moved by people. And what 
moves us is not their story. That may entertain us but it isn’t what moves us. What moves us 
is their magnanimity. Magnanimity arises in action, like the act of getting off  it. That’s real 
magnanimity. We don’t have a good way of talking about it because I have to say “you have to 
be big,” and it sounds like some quality inside. There are no qualities inside people. Qualities 
arise in action. And yes, yesterday you were being stingy, and you’re a bit thrown to being 
stingy, and what you said last night gave you a possibility beyond being stingy. You know, you 
bit the bullet. You spoke straight. And anytime somebody bites the bullet and talks straight 
a possibility beyond their inauthenticity arises. And you gave yourself a new possibility last 
night. You want to listen up because I’m putting this in words that you might fi nd a bit hard 
to, you know, a bit hard to deal with. 
KEVIN
I’m dealing with them.
ERHARD
Okay very good. So, last night in speaking straight and speaking yourself and being authentic 
about your inauthenticity, you created a possibility beyond your inauthenticity, and today you 
acted in that possibility...
And what moves us is not their story. That may
entertain us but it isn’t what moves us. What 
moves us is their magnanimity. Magnanimity
arises in action, like the act of getting off  it.
“


=== END OF PAGE 352 ===