=== PAGE 307 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Four 
293
big, tough, mature, intelligent adult, and I get you into a bad enough set of circumstances, you 
ever remember saying to yourself, “life is fucked”? You see how easy that conclusion is for a 
three-year-old, four-year-old, fi ve-year-old? What would it take to come to that conclusion for a 
three-, four-, or fi ve-year-old? Nobody comes to your party. Your mother’s mean to you. Almost 
anything, right? Real easy, right? Not only easy, it’s inevitable. And it’s not merely inevitable 
circumstantially. I’m not going to demonstrate this part to you, I’m just going to tell you. So 
I’m not asking you to accept it or believe it: It’s the already always being of human beings—
that there is something wrong. If you’re a human being, you are that there’s something wrong 
waiting to happen. Now forget that, because I’m not going to give you enough evidence of 
that to make it clear. But I just want you to hear it. What I want you to get is that it’s inevitable 
circumstantially. When you were growing up you had a circumstance in which the inevitable 
conclusion was, would have to be, “there is something wrong here!” There’s something wrong 
innately, profoundly, deeply, at the foundation, there’s something wrong! Life is constituted—
you don’t think in these terms, but—life is constituted as something wrong. Something’s wrong! 
And you don’t make that decision. You are that there’s something wrong. Now, you don’t get 
that yet; you’re not supposed to get that yet. You’re supposed to follow what I’m saying.
(posturing as the voice in a participant’s “head”)
“Gee, I don’t know. I don’t think that I’m ‘that there’s something wrong.’ I see what you’re saying 
Werner, I see that it’s logical that I would have to have come to that conclusion in my childhood, 
like a way of being. But gee I don’t get that ‘there’s something wrong.’ I mean, I actually think 
there’s a lot of right things. I mean, I don’t live my life out of ‘there’s something wrong.’” 
(returning to his own voice)
That’s what you should be saying to yourself, unless it’s already obvious to you that who you are 
is that there’s something wrong. For most of you that won’t be obvious yet. What I said will be 
obvious: that there is in your childhood and in your early childhood the circumstances in which 
you as a child would have to come to the inevitable conclusion that there is something wrong 
in life. That part I know you can see. The part you can’t see yet is how to fi t that into today. So 
we’re going to fi t that into today for you now. Jane, so, what I said made sense? Like you decided 
there was something wrong?
JANE
Yes.
ERHARD
You answered the question I asked: Did it make sense?
JANE
Yes.
ERHARD
You got any recollection of having made that kind of decision?
One is the way oneself, since until one advances there is no way. 
This perspective of his own work emerged early on in 
Heidegger’s career as a professor of philosophy. Here he describes 
his development of this perspective, as it occurred for him during a 
course he taught early in his career:
“
. . . the course was most imperfect. Yet there 
was quickening in it the attempt to walk a path 
of which I did not know where it would lead. 
I knew only the most immediate short-range 
perspectives along that path, because they 
beckoned to me unceasingly, while the horizon 
shift ed and darkened more than once. 
(“DL” in OWL 6)
This is the first of three points that we want to stress here about 
Heidegger’s way: that in entering upon the way to Being, one 
is jumping off  into the unknown. This is necessary because the 
thinking of Being cannot be understood in advance of its being 
thought. Therefore its undertaking is necessarily an advance into 
what is not known. But it is important to note that this advance 
into the unknown is not simply thinking about some thought 
content which we do not yet understand, something that we 
know we don’t know. That would be equivalent to examining new 
territory using a map; but Heidegger has no map. Werner Erhard 
has made this point about his own work: in such thinking, we are 
not merely traveling in uncharted waters, but in water that does 
not always act like water (“Heart of the Matter”).
This is an important point for Heidegger: to be on the 
way we must free ourselves from our subservience to the 
“common comprehension,” which is “convinced it was born 
comprehending everything” (WCT 77). We must give up judging 
each new thought on the basis of whether it is consistent with 
our old thoughts, a tendency which is pernicious in our current 
mode of thinking.


=== END OF PAGE 307 ===