=== PAGE 87 ===

Forum Day One: Session Four 
73
PARTICIPANT
That’s just life.
ERHARD
It’s life in the fast lane. “The more things change the more they remain the same.” That’s true. 
And we’ll look at why that’s so.
PARTICIPANT
There’s fun in engaging with this even though I don’t know what I’m doing. 
ERHARD
I don’t know what I’m doing. Would you want to dance knowing what you’re doing? But in 
our culture, you’re not allowed not to know. It’s shameful not to know. It’s the way we already 
always are. There’s an opportunity to develop a certain relationship with not knowing in here 
that will give you a more powerful access to what is worth knowing. With me? Thanks.
(pausing)
I’m not going to call on anybody for a while. We’re going to introduce a new what-you-call 
subject. We’re going to introduce a new what-I-call distinction. When this is all over, you’ll call 
it that too. The distinction is concern. The usual meaning of concern is “worried about.” When I 
use the word concern I use it in a broader sense. You and I are constituted by a body of con-
cerns, kind of like what we attend to. 
Erhard drew an X on the chalkboard.
ERHARD  (continuing)
X is a symbol that represents one of your concerns. X could be “being related.”
(responding to a participant asking for clarifi cation)
It could be said that human beings are constituted by a body of concerns. The word constitutive 
means something more than “is a part of.” It means something like “gives the thing itself.” It’s 
like your concerns give you your self. 
PARTICIPANT
It gives the essence of my self...
ERHARD
You’ve got to watch because I’m going to say “no” to damn near everything you’re going to say, 
and everything you say is good, but it’s not quite it. We’re not going to get this nailed down and 
I’ll show you why in just a second. You’re in the right ballpark. You’re fine.
(pausing)
So X represents one of your concerns. Let’s just say this represents the concern for being related. 
Everybody’s got this concern. A hermit expresses this concern by saying “I’m not related.” 
CONCERN
In introducing the distinction concern, Erhard is articulating 
another hint at the realm of Being the Forum is designed to evoke. 
As with his earlier conversation about moods, he is relocating the 
source of participants’ problems from their own agency to the 
contextualizing background. 
In Being and Time, Heidegger makes a similar move when 
he says that “Being-in-the-world has always dispersed itself or 
even split itself up into definite ways of Being-in.” To develop 
this point, he provides a list of examples, such as having to do 
with something, producing something, attending to something, 
undertaking, and considering. “All these ways of Being-in,” he says 
“have concern as their kind of Being” (BT 83).
Heidegger also distinguishes a category that he calls deficient 
modes of concern, in which “the possibilities of concern are kept 
to a ‘bare minimum’” (BT 83). Deficient modes include leaving 
undone, neglecting, renouncing, and taking a rest.
In everyday use, the word “concern” can have several 
meanings. The most common in our current usage is 
apprehension, as in “I am concerned for the success of our 
project.” But Heidegger and Erhard have used the term in another 
way, as a term for an existential characteristic of human beings, “a 
possible way of Being-in-the-world.” 
Just as human beings are never not in-the-world, they are 
likewise never not concerned, since they are concern essentially. 
Consider: you cannot locate yourself outside of your concerns, 
since the very attempt to do so is itself a manifestation of concern. 
Like lightning, which exists only in flashing, a human being exists 
always and only as a body of concerns.
With this distinction, both Heidegger and Erhard are 
undermining our everyday understanding of the meanings in 
our world. In so doing, they are preparing the way for the final 
transformational leap, the evocation of the Nothing. ■


=== END OF PAGE 87 ===