=== PAGE 278 ===

264
SPEAKING BEING
The Forgetting of Being, Part Five of Eight: Physis
To gain insight into the elusive nature of transformation, we are tracing the history 
of Being, as unearthed by Heidegger in his reading of the Pre-Socratic Greek 
philosophers. When Heidegger speaks of the Pre-Socratics, he oft en says simply “the 
Greeks”; however, as we will show, the level of insight achieved by these thinkers 
was not likely shared by the hoi polloi, the Greek population as a whole. 
 One of the tasks required by Heidegger’s project was to distinguish the original 
meanings of words which, for the Greeks, said Being. Discerning these meanings
was an extraordinary challenge. According to Heidegger, the great thinking of these
philosophers was non-conceptual thinking, and therefore radically diff erent from 
our current practice of reasoning, that is, comparing and contrasting propositions
that each state some relationship between a subject and its predicate. Subjects and
predicates are always and already generalized abstractions drawn from the particu-
larities of lived experience.
“
Concept and system alike are alien to Greek thinking. [...] The 
interpretation of Greek thinking that is guided by modern 
conceptual thinking not only remains inappropriate for Greek 
thinking; it also keeps us from hearing the appeal of the prob-
lematic of Greek thinking, and thus from being held to a con-
stantly more urgent summons to go on questioning. (WCT 213)
T
Keep in mind that when we talk about a new way of thinking, we are introducing a 
topic that cannot be brought to mind in our current way of thinking. So whatever 
you thought when you read that phrase isn’t it. 
Of the words used by the Pre-Socratics, none is more challenging than physis
(pronounced foo’-sis). What was said in this word, for the Greeks, was what Heideg-
ger calls the power that emerges. The original force of the word has been lost to us;
and it is the judgment of the scholar Charles E. Scott that if we can think physis as
the Greeks did, we will “find ourselves in an original dimension of our history,” one 
that has been lost almost since its inception (A Companion to Heidegger’s Introduc-
(
tion to Metaphysics 26).
But to translate the Greek terms successfully, Heidegger insists, we must first 
translate ourselves to the source of what comes to language in their saying. Since in
each pre-Socratic fragment the background from which it speaks is spoken as well, 
we must “seek the opportunity which will let us cross over to that source first of all
SESSION THREE INTERVAL
outside the fragment itself; it must be an opportunity which will let us experience 
f
what ta onta [beings], thought in Greek, says” (EGT 28, emphasis added).
T
This book proposes that the transformational experience made available in The
Forum provides that opportunity. We show in this book that The Forum experience is 
consistent in significant ways with the experience in language that Heidegger aimed
to evoke in his thinking. Further, since Heidegger is analogizing his understanding of 
Being with the experience of the Pre-Socratics, we invoke the principle of transitive 
equality and propose that The Forum, through its intentional dialogic transactions,
provides the opportunity called for in the passage above—it allows us to experience,
outside the Greek fragments themselves, the meaning of physis and ta onta.
Blossoming Emergence
Heidegger summarizes the complexity of physis here:
“
Now what does the word physis say? It says what emerges from
s
itself (for example, the emergence, the blossoming, of a rose), 
the unfolding that opens itself up, the coming-into-appearance 
in such unfolding, and holding itself and persisting in appear-
ance—in short, the emerging-abiding sway. . . . Physis is the
event of standing forth, 
h arising from the concealed and thus en-
abling the concealed to take its stand for the first time. (IM 15-16)
M
This short but dense passage suggests the dynamic of physis—emerging, unfolding, 
standing forth—as well as its complications. The word at once designates a process 
(blossoming), the entity that emerges in that process (the rose), and finally the 
phenomenon that comprises both the emergence and the rose itself, which is 
named here the emerging-abiding sway. Note further that as the rose (the being) 
emerges into unconcealment (the world), it brings with it the concealed from which it 
has emerged—the sway, the Being of the emergent being—and thereby brings what 
has been concealed to stand “for the first time” in the world of meaning.
The word sway is a translation of Heidegger’s German word Walten. This is sway
in the sense of holding sway, by exercising rule or dominance over some realm. 
But the term inevitably sounds overtones of persistent, back-and-forth vacillation, 
a quality appropriate to any discussion of Being. In his writing about the Greeks,
Heidegger uses both physis and sway as designations for the realm of Being, and
sometimes he seems to be using them interchangeably. More oft en, however, the 
terms serve to distinguish Being in two diff erent contexts, or stages. Of course, Being
cannot have a context, or anything at all like stages; but to talk about a topic that 
cannot be talked about, one must tell some lies. 


=== END OF PAGE 278 ===