=== PAGE 514 ===

500
SPEAKING BEING
You’ve got no access to your feelings right now, do you? Yeah, you can’t feel sad if you want 
to feel sad. You can’t be happy if you want to be happy. The circumstances determine your 
happiness or your sadness. And all you got to deal with your feelings is fucking around with 
your circumstances. So you do what you think you need to do to create circumstances that will 
make you happy. And they don’t. They gratify you for a little while, and then you’re unhappy 
again. So, to gain access to your actions, to gain access to your feelings and thoughts, as 
actions so to speak, you need to see that your actions and thoughts and feelings are a correlate 
with the occurring. And the occurring arises, occurs, in a medium called possibility. So now 
the question is: “Well, how do I gain access to this possibility stuff ?” Because if I can shift 
possibility, I can shift occurring; and if I can shift occurring, I can shift action. But you’ve got 
to get possibility like I’m saying it, not like something that might happen. That’s an option. 
Something that might happen is an option. That’s what Mike and I were talking about back 
there, options. “If the ball is over there, I might be able to catch it.” That’s an option. “And if 
it’s over here, it’s more likely that I’ll catch it.” That’s a better option. These are options, not 
possibilities. Possibility doesn’t limit. It opens up. It frees one, not limits one. So possibility is 
the medium of occurring, and occurring is the correlate of action. Does anybody not get that? 
You’re starting to slide back into the fi rst day. You’re starting to wonder how to use this stuff . 
“I don’t understand it.” What you’re really saying is “I don’t see its applicability. I don’t see 
how I’m going to apply it, or use it. I don’t see how this is going to make me thinner, or richer, 
or younger, or sexier. So I don’t understand it. If it isn’t going to make me thinner, or richer, 
or younger, or sexier, then what is it?” So now the question is, “Where do I fi nd possibility?” 
And the answer to that is in the ape never picking up the stick because he might fi nd bananas 
hanging in the jungle clearing later on. Possibility arises in languaging. And I use the term 
languaging instead of language so you don’t confuse what I’m talking about with vocabulary 
and syntax and grammar. You know, music is languaging, action is languaging when it speaks, 
and actions do speak don’t they? And “in a glass,” which is never said, and is yet present 
without being said by virtue of what is said, that’s languaging too. And you want to know 
what? Sitting in a chair is languaging. A lot of people would look at a chair and never sit in it. 
It would look stupid to them: silly, uncomfortable, or nasty. Like sitting on two stakes sticking 
up. You look at two stakes sticking up—that doesn’t look too comfortable to us. There are 
people who look at a chair and don’t see it as a comfortable place to sit. It’s something to stand 
on to get something in the cupboard that’s up high. Not a place to sit. And the way it occurs 
to you is a product of languaging, not a product of what it is. Is a chair a chair? No, it’s not an 
is chair, it’s an occurring chair. In other cultures it occurs as something to stand on to get up 
to the cupboard that’s up high. It’s not an is chair; it’s an occurring chair. And your actions 
with it are exactly like they are with the dictionary. Your actions are correlated to the object as 
an occurring. So we’re sneaking up on a statement: You do have something to say about your 
actions. You do have something to say about it. And why you have something to say about it is 
because possibility arises in language. 
At one point during this conversation, at about 10 pm, the doors to the room were opened and 
about two hundred people fi led into the room and seated themselves in rows of chairs that had been 
placed at the sides and rear. These were friends of the participants who had previously taken The 
Forum, and who had been invited by them to join them, for this portion of the course.
in BW 320–321). As Michael E. Zimmerman has pointed out, this 
new way of revealing has now overtaken even the windmill: “Forty 
miles east of San Francisco in Livermore, California, thousands 
of turbo-driven windmills cover the hills  as far as the eye can 
see. The wind’s energy is, in fact, being  harnessed and stored to 
produce electricity” (Heidegger’s Confrontation with Modernity 
216). However, what stands in the way of windmills being really 
useful as a power source is merely that no power can be generated 
when the wind isn’t blowing. The solution, which is already likely 
at hand, will be to invent super batteries that could store up the 
energy for use and distribution when and where we need it. This 
would transform the “freely flowing” wind into something stored 
up, standing at the ready, in reserve.
Standing-Reserve
This situation reveals a second stage of the technological 
understanding of Being, which Heidegger calls Bestand, or 
standing-reserve. In this mode of revealing, says Heidegger, 
“everything is ordered to stand by, to be immediately on hand, 
indeed to stand there just so that it may be on call for a further 
ordering” (“QCT” in BW 322). This mode of revealing distorts the 
appearance of things: the airliner on the runway, for example, 
“conceals itself as to what and how it is.” 
Revealed, it stands on the taxi strip only as
standing-reserve, inasmuch as it is ordered to
insure the possibility of transportation. For this
it must be in its whole structure and in every
one of its constituent parts itself on call for 
duty, i.e., ready for takeoff . (“QCT” in BW 322)
“
David Tabachnick has provided a useful contrast between 
the old and new ways of revealing, between the techne of the 
craft sman and the techne that we observe in current technology. 
For the craft sman, “‘bringing-forth’ describes a working in 
partnership or co-operation with the nature of materials to 
construct an artifact, such as a chair or a house, while the 
contemporary technologist is described as ‘challenging-forth’ or 
changing the nature of materials to make them stronger, more 
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 514 ===