=== PAGE 252 ===

238
SPEAKING BEING
KIPP
Then when you sit down you’ll do whatever you do when you sit down. And that’s all there is.
JACOB 
What’s the motivation then? 
KIPP
Whatever it is. You are the kind of being that thinks there has to be a motivation. There is 
no motivation, because there’s no place to get to. People who are addicted to motivation are 
addicted to trying to get somewhere. Can you see that that’s the source of motivation? But there 
is no place to get to. You know why?
JACOB
Why?
KIPP
There’s no place to get to because it’s already turned out. This is the way it turned out. How do 
you like it?
JACOB
No.
KIPP
It doesn’t matter. You turned out this way, right?
JACOB
Yeah, but, it’s imperfect. I can live with it, but...
KIPP
What’s imperfect?
JACOB
The world’s imperfect.
KIPP
Where?
JACOB
Ethiopia.
KIPP
Ethiopia is Ethiopia.
One cannot compare enlightenment experiences, because one 
cannot compare nothing with nothing, since there is only one 
nothing. Or, as an alternative interpretation, there is no nothing; 
nothing is a nullity, its existence is self-nullified. There is nothing to 
be compared. And yet, I can say these sentences, so nothing can be 
talked about. 
In Heidegger’s words, “‘there is given’ [es gibt] the Nothing.” 
He adds: “but we cannot, at present, determine more closely who 
or what gives the Nothing” (BC 45). That question must remain 
open to call forth thinking. So Heidegger moves on to another 
possible interpretation of the situation: “We can also say that the 
Nothing presences [west], in order to indicate that the Nothing is 
not merely the absence and lack of beings” (BC 45).  
The Nothing does not first need beings and a 
being in order to presence, as if it would pres-
ence only if beings were eliminated in advance. 
The Nothing is not the result of such an elimina-
tion. There is given the Nothing in spite of the
fact that beings are. (BC 45)
“
We referred to this territory as precarious, not because the topic 
is subversive, but because the conversation can easily begin to 
sound silly. Sophomoric. Heidegger is not surprised that we may 
be thinking this:
Here we easily fall into the danger of playing
with words. People make use of the justifiable
indication of this danger in order to banish all
thought “about” the Nothing as fatal. But the 
danger is no less that, because we seem to be 
merely playing around with words, we take the
Nothing too lightly and fail to recognize that 
there is given the Nothing. (BC 45–46)
“


=== END OF PAGE 252 ===