=== PAGE 92 ===

Jargon
Erhard’s influence on the language of Western culture has been significant. His 
terminology, like Heidegger’s, has always been unusual and highly purposive, and 
many of these words and phrases made their way into the public sphere, some to 
lasting effect. But that language, in its casual use, began to lose its power. Heidegger 
detailed this process of devolution in Being and Time:
SESSION FOUR INTERVAL
I hardly use the word “transformation” at all any more. . . . because 
while it once was a word that people had to think about, struggle 
to grasp, work on, that’s just not true anymore. The word no longer 
wakes people up. Now, when you say “transformation,” the word 
puts them to sleep—like they know what it means—they stop 
thinking, looking, inquiring. 
Instead, he said, as his ontological inquiry has developed, “the notions keep getting 
said differently” (Simon, “Quarterbacks and Coaches: Tossing It Around with Werner 
Erhard,” Family Therapy Networker, March–April 1986, 30–39).
Heidegger addressed his own confrontation with this situation in his essay “A 
Dialogue on Language,” a transcript of his conversation with a Japanese scholar. At 
one point Heidegger (referred to in the transcript as the Inquirer) mentions two of 
the ideas that were central in his early work, hermeneutics and phenomenology. 
“
78
SPEAKING BEING
In the language which is spoken when one expresses oneself, there 
lies an average intelligibility; and in accordance with this intelligi-
bility the discourse which is communicated can be understood to a 
considerable extent, even if the hearer does not bring himself into 
such a kind of Being towards what the discourse is about as to have 
a primordial understanding of it. We do not so much understand 
the entities which are talked about; we already are listening only to 
what-is-said-in-the-talk as such. What is said in the talk gets under-
stood; but what the talk is about is understood only approximately 
and superficially. . . . Idle talk is the possibility of understanding 
everything without previously making the thing one’s own. . . . Thus, 
by its very nature, idle talk is a closing-off , since to go back to the 
ground of what is talked about is something which it leaves undone. 
(BT 212–213)
“
Erhard’s comments in a 1986 interview, discussing the evolution of his own 
language use, echo Heidegger’s account of the process by which terms lose their 
originative power. Many of the words he had used in his work, Erhard said, “even-
tually drifted into popular use.” They “lost the creative intention behind them and 
degenerated into a kind of jargon.” Outside their original context, as Heidegger put 
it, the terms no longer reached out into the “totality of involvements” in which their 
significance was grounded (BT 200). 
This was the fate of the term “transformation,” a central term to which Erhard 
had assigned “an extremely precise meaning.” Today, he said, “you hear it every-
where. You read about it in business journals. It’s ‘hot.’ So, to some degree, it’s lost 
its potency.” He continued:
[Japanese]: I am all the more puzzled that you have meanwhile 
dropped both words.
[Inquirer]: That was done, not—as is so oft en thought—in order to 
deny the significance of phenomenology, but in order to abandon 
my own path of thinking to namelessness.
[Japanese]: An eff ort with which you will hardly be successful. . . .
[Inquirer]: . . . since one cannot get by in public without rubrics. 
(“DL” in OWL 29)
“
What is essential in both Heidegger’s work and Erhard’s is what is unspoken and 
therefore essentially nameless. Much of Erhard’s work during the four decades of its 
evolution may be seen as the development of new rubrics (distinctions) to replace 
those that have devolved into jargon, such that what is said makes present what 
cannot be said in words. 


=== END OF PAGE 92 ===