=== PAGE 255 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 241
WES
You’re doing whatever you’re doing, and you’re adding this story that it’s leading me toward 
perfection. But it’s leading you toward a hole in the ground, and they’re going to throw you in 
it, and they’re going to throw dirt in your face. Think about that. 
JACOB
Yeah, yeah. That’s what happened.
WES
No, that’s what will happen.
JACOB
Yeah, when I get there that will be what happened. I don’t mind adding a story to my life, just 
to make it interesting, or entertaining. I don’t mind tinting my life with fi ction. Just to make it 
interesting.
ERHARD
You were doing fi ne until you added the “just to make it interesting.”
JACOB
Or entertaining.
ERHARD
Or “just to make it entertaining.” The story “in order to be entertained.” That’s terrible.
JACOB
Yeah, yeah.
ERHARD
The purpose to the story is the story. 
JACOB
Yeah, yeah.
ERHARD
What’s more entertaining than a tree? Nothing. Standing in front of a tree: nothing can be 
more entertaining than standing in front of a tree. 
JACOB
So when you take what happened then there should be automatic meaning added to it without 
having to play violins...
ERHARD
There’s no meaning to it. The tree doesn’t mean anything. It’s just a tree. 
We have suggested that an essential relationship exists between the 
experience evoked in the est Training and that made available in The 
Forum; and we have said that neither experience is captured in the 
spoken words of the conversations, but that both are communicated 
in the unspoken context of those words. Heidegger likewise directs 
us to consider the character of the context. If modern human beings 
are to engage in a thoughtful dialogue with the writing of the pre-
Socratics—and Heidegger sees such a dialogue as critical for this 
moment in history—then we must begin to apprehend in our thinking 
“the unified totality of the manifold” (EGT 22). 
Dialogue with early Greek thinking will be fruit-
ful only when such listening occurs. It is proper 
to dialogue that its conversation speak of the
same thing; indeed that it speak out of partici-
pation in the Same. (EGT 22)
“
Over the vast chasm of time and language, can what we hear 
be the same as what the Greek thinkers are saying? To develop 
this question, Heidegger places a passage from the pre-Socratic 
thinker Parmenides alongside one from the thinking of a modern 
philosopher, Nietzsche, and makes this observation regarding the 
juxtaposition:
The ancient fragment of early Western thinking
and the late fragment of recent Western think-
ing bring the Same to language, but what they
say is not identical. However, where we can
speak of the Same in terms of things which are
not identical, the fundamental condition of a
thoughtful dialogue between recent and early
times is automatically fulfilled. . . . [G]ranting
the diff erences between these epochs, we are
together with the early thinkers in the realm of 
the Same. (EGT 23)
“


=== END OF PAGE 255 ===