=== PAGE 35 ===

 
Forum Day One: Session One 
21
DORIS 
Okay.
She sat. A man rose to object to Erhard’s earlier assertion that our ways of being, such as nervous-
ness, own us. 
FOSTER
I understand that being nervous is a human quality. Why don’t I own being nervous? Isn’t that 
a quality of me? 
ERHARD 
Where is this quality? 
FOSTER (pointing to his heart)
Here, and it’s pounding! 
ERHARD 
My dog’s heart pounds. You and I explain things about people by assigning qualities to them. 
But this may not be eff ective if what you want to do is have access to the things you’re explain-
ing. The language we use every day is designed to explain things. The language we use in here 
is designed to gain access to things. So it’s a diff erent language. Explanations give no access to
power. If you want power and access, we’re going to invent such a language in here. I’m not 
limited to merely reporting the way I am. I’m an anti-quality-ist. You ain’t got any qualities 
inside you. Qualities are an explanatory principle. It won’t hold up on closer examination. 
Erhard was now in the aisle, moving among the participants. One rose to defend the importance of 
having what he called self-beliefs.
RAY
How does one hold beliefs about oneself and about reality in a way to be powerful and creative?
ERHARD
One of the ways is to not have any beliefs. Does anyone need to believe that the fl oor is there? 
You don’t need to have any belief about the fl oor and it works just fi ne. And if you didn’t have 
any beliefs about gravity it would work just fi ne. You only need to believe in things that you 
doubt. The only problem with belief is that you can’t think about anything you believe.
k
RAY
I have an interpretation about myself, and how do I hold that interpretation?
ERHARD
As an interpretation.
Being-in articulates an essentially different relationship
from the one we usually have in mind when we say something is
“in” something. If we say “the water is in the glass,” for example, 
the two phenomena being related have a prior and individual 
existence in space: the water was there, and the glass was there. 
We have simply put one in the other. Further, as Heidegger points
out, we can easily extend such relationships outward: the glass is
on the table, the table is in the kitchen, the kitchen is in the house, 
and so on, until finally we can say that the water is in “world 
space” (BT 79).
T
Objects such as the glass and the table are, in Heidegger’s 
vocabulary, “things occurring ‘within’ the world” (BT 79).
T
Therefore they have a different kind of being from Dasein. The
table and the glass are whats; their characteristics are categorical.
While the table and the glass can have a location-relationship
within the world, the water is not in the glass in the same way that
a human being is in-the-world. 
Dasein, on the other hand, is a who, and its characteristics
are existential, which define an existence structure quite different
from that of a table. This is, of course, on one level obvious. 
But Heidegger, remember, is languaging a view of the world 
that is very different from our everyday way of understanding
things. Therefore he is rigorous in setting out the terminological 
differences between states of being.
A chair can be next to the wall, but the chair can never touch
the wall, “even if the space between them should be equal to
zero” (BT 81). Heidegger is not making a sensory distinction but 
T
an ontological one. To touch is to encounter meaningfully, and 
such meaningful encounters are possible only for entities with
meaning. In Heidegger’s vocabulary, a table and a chair are 
worldless.
Werner Erhard can be seen as distinguishing worldlessness 
early in The Forum, in his interactions with participants on the
subject of whether the rain falls in order to water the flowers. In 
doing so, he is beginning to create an understanding of meaning 
as a human characteristic, rather than an aspect of the things out
there in the world. This distinction will be further developed later 


=== END OF PAGE 35 ===