=== PAGE 213 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Two 
199
her. There was nothing else to do. But then I realized that there was something incomplete, 
which was how I was in the relationship, but not how I presented myself in the relationship. 
I saw what a shit I was when I was a teenager, and how much damage I had done by leaving. 
I left home after college and I emigrated to this country alone. I made it on my own. I never 
completed that I ran away.
WES
She’s talking about running away as a solution to a problem. Probably useful for you to look 
at the things you have left, the people you have left in order to solve a problem. To get the 
communication you left from their perspective. 
JOYCE
Yesterday I saw the damage I had done. I see that I participate, but I don’t share. I’m very good 
at what I do, but I don’t put myself in there. And I knew that I had to give that up here in The 
Forum. I called my mother. I told her. She said “that’s great!” I told her about two incidents that 
were very troubling. I told her that I got how rotten I was in the process of leaving. She said, 
“yes you were.” 
WES
And right there was the moment of getting off  it.
JOYCE
She said, “thank you for telling me that.” She described how I was and it was frightening. I can 
see what it must have been like for her. I saw what I am like; I can see what a pain in the ass I 
am for all the people I work with. I have heard it but haven’t really seen it. It was very settling.
WES
There’s a possibility for being in communication that settles issues.
JOYCE
She told me “hearing this gives me a wave of warmth.” I got that I set her free and that I was 
too. 
WES
Great. Thank you.
(applause)
I invite you to listen to big people, people willing to set aside their accomplishments, to not use 
them as an excuse to not participate, as a way for you to put yourself into The Forum.
Jake stood—the participant from Day One who was “hustle waiting to happen” and who also was 
“nutty” about inauthenticity.


=== END OF PAGE 213 ===