=== PAGE 189 ===

Forum Day Three: Session One
175
ERHARD
See, look. If she won the Nobel Prize that would be less important to her life than what she just 
said. There’s nothing more important for her to say. Because once she can own that, there’s a 
possibility beyond that. And until she can own that, there’s no possibility beyond that. All there 
is, is shucking and jiving around that: one ploy after another ploy—trying not to be that way, to 
fi nding out you are that way, giving in to being that way, making up your mind to be some other 
way, trying not to be that way, fi xing being that way—it’s all a trap like having your foot nailed 
to the fl oor and running around real fast.
BETTY
I’m going to fi x it.
KIPP
What do you mean by that? Because it’s going to be misheard.
BETTY
I’m going to fi x it by acknowledging my racket. When my racket goes to swing I’m going to 
stop it. Because I’m not going to allow myself to pay the costs, just for me to be right and make 
everyone wrong. Feel what I’m feeling. I’m going to take full control of it. 
ERHARD
Most of that’s pretty good. A little “fi x it” in there; a little “stop it” in there. Most of it is 
responsibility for it. And to the degree that she can be responsible for it, to the degree she can 
be with it—be with it and be responsible for it—these words are synonymous, by the way—to the 
degree that she can be responsible for it, to that degree she’s not limited to it. It’s not going to 
go away. That’s who she is. That’s the identity she’s built for herself. It’s gonna be there forever. 
And to the degree she can be with that, there’s a possibility beyond that. We’re too far into today 
now, so I’m going to stop talking like that.
KIPP
What you’re present to is the distinction sharing. There’s no manipulation, no in-order-to. 
That’s what sharing sounds like. This is what The Forum is about. So if you’re sitting in your 
chair, if you’re with whatever’s happening in her life with yours, if there’s a harmony, if it 
strikes a chord, then you should know that’s what this work is about. If you fi nd yourself in her 
speaking—if you fi nd yourself in your life in her life—that’s what we’re doing here. Out of her 
generosity—the truth is, out of her getting off  it—that’s what it sounds like when someone’s 
getting off  it. She had no life. What she had was hate and resentment and bitterness, and 
hate and resentment and bitterness were winning. We’re going to continue to distinguish this 
distinction “sharing.”
SUSAN 
I didn’t think you’d call on me.
Similarly, for Erhard, it is the in-order-to of the technological 
clearing which diminishes our experience of truth:
“ 
. . .if you take something which is true and add 
to it an “in order to” or even a “because” or 
a “therefore,” you’ve changed it. And you’ve 
changed it so dramatically that it’s no longer the 
truth. It’s the truth used for something—to prove
d
something, to coerce others, to be right or make 
someone else wrong. The truth used like that isn’t 
the truth any more. It’s closer to a lie—something 
pretending to be the truth. (Simon, ibid. 38, em-
phasis added)
Here we find ourselves in another instance of the reflexive thinking
that characterizes the work of both Erhard and Heidegger: even
attempts to escape in-order-to are undertaken in order to escape
in-order-to. Consequently, much of The Forum is devoted to the 
distinction of a possibility beyond in-order-to. As Forum leader 
Roger Armstrong told the Openings participants during this 1989 
Forum, “To do one thing that’s not in-order-to” could be worth the 
entire four days of The Forum. The paradox—embedded deeply in 
Heidegger’s central distinction, appropriation—is that one can get 
beyond in-order-to only by allowing and owning the inevitability of 
in-order-to. ■


=== END OF PAGE 189 ===