=== PAGE 392 ===

378
SPEAKING BEING
KIPP
The more you come from life being empty and meaningless.
PRESTON
Yes. It’s a total paradox. All you can do is what Werner seems to do, is just repeat it over and 
over and over again. And three people get up and he repeats it over and over again. I’m walk-
ing along and this thing goes: “validation.” And I see that there’s something for me inside that
space I’m trying to stand in now, that I’ve been instructed to stand in, rather than doing an
exercise. And what I fi nd in it is something in my own terminology, because I love language as
distinction—that is where I cross humbly with Werner’s path: that’s my martial art, my practice.
And I found that there was something already in that emptiness that didn’t leave it somehow 
and maybe it could stay with me and help me bridge my way back to that part of myself—it’s
what I would call trust and innocence, and what I mean by innocence for myself is not naïve,
it’s just readiness—kind of a readiness state—a trust I also reached yesterday. So in a way I’ve 
pulled the fl oor up under my feet another few inches by being with structure, by being willing 
to be boxed, by boxing myself. And it occurred to me—since that is something that hadn’t been 
brought up a lot in the talk—maybe it was something because of the time squeeze and the pres-
sures and what goes on could have had on another occasion, in another format, a little more 
time to it. And I thought that if that was what was missing for me and I could fi t it in, then I
could guess what Werner was going to do next.
KIPP
The danger of the conversation, Preston—I’m not saying the conversation is dangerous the way 
you are saying it, but the danger is you making that into an answer.
PRESTON
I would say it was just a thought. It was what happened in my head as I was watching the “vali-
dating” sign. I don’t take any of this personally.
KIPP
Or like an answer.
PRESTON
No, it’s just what is happening as I am doing some thinking rather than being thought.
KIPP
Very nice. Okay.
PRESTON
And the last thought about this. What had happened to me was a set of distinctions. I had made
choice after choice after choice so it seems the place I’m at in my Forum is being with choice.
Not making choice an answer even...
Heidegger says that Being comes to presence as Augenblick, a 
moment of vision—an all-at-once gestalt switch in which we leap
suddenly onto new ground, where everything is diff erent. But the 
gift  of Being comes with non-negotiable conditions. First, the leap
cannot be accomplished unless the appropriate time and space
are created for the necessary run-up. Second, the new ground will 
be revealed as the old ground, the familiar ground upon which we
have been standing all along, but will be apprehended in a pro-
foundly new light.  Third, in this new light, the ground is not solid 
in the way we have always counted on ground to be; therefore
we must open ourselves to a new level of uncertainty, which also 
means a new level of ontological freedom. The action of the run-
up is always the teasing-open of old ground, so that a background
can be revealed.
 For Heidegger then, and likewise for Werner Erhard, trans-
formed human existence already is; its freedom has always already 
been available to us. But we rarely experience its power because we 
have not appropriated it—that is, we have not authentically accepted
and taken ownership of our existence. “Being” is a fuzzy concept for 
us; it is not a distinct realm. Therefore the run-up occurs as a gradual 
process in which we distinguish the old ground—our current Being-
in-the-world—as itself, so that we can own it for what it is. This is
the essential first step in achieving transformation, and the process 
occupies the first three days of The Forum.
A fundamental distinction in this process is the distinction of 
distinction itself.f  In this section we will cut another path into that
clearing.
Aletheia
One of the terms by which Heidegger distinguished the ontolog-
ical dimension is the Greek word Aletheia, or unconcealment. 
This word, for Heidegger and for the pre-Socratics, says the free 
openness in which beings are first revealed. The term has oft en 
been understood as denoting truth; but this is not to be mistak-
en as the “truth” of our current everyday understanding, as the
correspondence of an assertion with its object; that kind of truth 
is at best a shadow of what is meant by this ancient Greek word.


=== END OF PAGE 392 ===