=== PAGE 517 ===

Forum Day Four: Session Three 503
don’t have to risk much. You don’t have to put your lines out when you’re ugly. You all awake? 
If you’re beautiful, you’ve got to put your lines out. You understand why?
JANE
Yeah. 
ERHARD
Do you understand trolling?
JANE
Yeah.
(laughter)
ERHARD
Trolling is a game called being alive. And it’s as meaningful as everything else in life. Zero. 
Therefore you’re free to play. And there are certain agreements in society about playing. And 
society is weird, but that’s too bad: That’s what we got. I may not get a chance to talk to you 
again tonight, and I want you to know how deeply grateful I am for your contribution to this 
Forum. You’re really beautiful. 
JANE
Thank you. 
She sat to long applause from the group.
Erhard moved to the chalkboard, and drew three circles. The fi rst two he labeled “story” and “what 
happened.”
ERHARD
Remember on the fi rst day, we drew these two circles. One was your “story” and the other 
circle was “what happened.” So there was what happened, and there was your story about what 
happened, and then we talked about the vicious circle where those two domains got collapsed, 
and you couldn’t tell the diff erence between what happened and your story about what happened. 
And you began to think that your story about what happened is what happened. And that makes 
people suff er. Just like putting your hand on the gas stove makes you suff er. That’s why you 
can’t trust psychology, because all of the then-known facts in psychology had been established 
with experiments with rats and college sophomores, neither one of which might be human—I 
don’t know about college sophomores, but I know that rats are not like human beings. And the 
diff erence between a rat and a human being is a rat will stop crawling into the oven if it gets 
burned, and human beings will keep crawling into the oven. Forever. Why? Because “it’s the right 
fucking oven, and I believe in it.” And then we got more sophisticated and said there were two 
realms of existence: that what existed, existed as a presence, and what existed, the same stuff , exists 
as a concept. These are two distinct realms of existence, domains of existence.
mechanism of the “they” self, the two thinkers appear side-by-side, 
but this is only a semblance. For Heidegger, one notable eff ect of 
understanding the world as a source of resources is that humans 
have surrendered their role as the self-certain ontologically centered 
subject. Since standing-reserve is an “inclusive rubric,” it moves us 
beyond the Cartesian subject-object model in which we have come to 
conceptualize our relationship to things. Instead, says Dreyfus, “we are 
passing from the subject-object stage to the stage in which the culture 
is becoming, one might say, one big cybernetic system” (“Gaining”). 
Clearly, this is not the overcoming of Cartesian subjectivity that the 
early Heidegger of Being and Time and Erhard—from the est Training to 
the present—have been working toward. It is not the opening for a new 
possibility of Being for human beings. Instead:
As soon as what is unconcealed no longer 
concerns man even as object, but exclusively 
as standing-reserve, and man in the midst of 
objectlessness is nothing but the orderer of the
standing-reserve, then he comes to the brink of 
a very precipitous fall, that is, he comes to the 
point where he himself will have to be taken as 
standing-reserve. (“QCT” in BW 332, emphasis
added)
“
This precipitous fall, we off er, has already taken place: this is the 
way of being human The Forum addresses in its participants from 
the very beginning. Those seeking to improve, to acquire the tips 
and techniques to overcome and change their lives for the better, 
who take any morsel of wisdom and put it to use, all the better to 
order it, but in the process they—we—unwittingly rob the truth, 
as unconcealment, of its power—this is the way of being that self-
destructs against the bulwark of the Nothing the inquiry of The 
Forum brings to presence.
Enframing
And so, we arrive at the final stage in the way modern technology 
reveals the world: “the essence of modern technology,” says 
Heidegger, “lies in enframing [Gestell]” (“QCT” in BW 328). This 


=== END OF PAGE 517 ===