=== PAGE 432 ===

418
SPEAKING BEING
WES
Yeah, there’s nothing like a little sympathy along the way.
DONALD
You know the thing that I didn’t want to stand up and talk about was my weight because I 
didn’t want to have eight hundred people come up and give me suggestions now.
(laughter)r
I think there’s like a stuckness that that creates.
WES (to the group)
Don’t give Donald suggestions.
DONALD
Okay, thanks, Wes. That’s it.
WES
Very good. Thank you. 
(Donald sits to applause as Illiana stands)
What you want to be doing is looking at your problems and the payoff s to them. 
ILLIANA
I’m trying to fi gure it out.
WES
Bad deal. Wrong deal.
ILLIANA
Okay. Just a second. My racket is that I want attention.
WES
What problem allows you to run the racket?
ILLIANA
Asking for attention.
WES
Is that the problem? Asking for attention?
ILLIANA
I have many diff erent problems on that basis.
“Way of Being” and the “Nature of Being for 
Human Beings”
The following is an excerpt from the Pre-Course Reading Assign-
ment #5 from the Being a Leader Course (http://beingaleader.net) 
as of fall 2015. In the manner in which this pedagogical document
opens up a way to distinguish the diff erence between “way of 
being” for human beings, and the “fundamental and essential
nature of Being for human beings,” the authors find a further 
development of Erhard’s work in The Forum (circa 1989) that both 
continues to resonate with Heidegger’s thinking while experiment-
ing with new languagings of primordial metaphors.
What is Meant by “Way of Being”
In speaking about another person’s way of being you or I might 
say, “She’s in a good mood,” or “That made him sad,” or “She’s
always cheerful,” or “He is an extrovert.”  We also sometimes simi-
larly think about our own way of being.
Our way of being is some combination of our mental state, 
emotional state, bodily state, and our thoughts and thought pro-
cesses, and memories.  Or saying the same thing in more experi-
ential terms, our way of being is some combination of our attitude
or state of mind, and our feelings or emotions, plus our body
sensations, and our thoughts and memories.  For short, our way of 
being is what is going on with us internally in a given moment or in
y
a given situation.
Note that the temporality of our way of being is what is going
on with us in a given moment or in
t
a given situation.  Even if a
certain way of being could be said to be our general or characteris-
tic way of being, none of us is always only the way we generally or 
characteristically are.
Once you have checked out in your own experience what we 
have said so far about way of being (and you should certainly do
that), what we have said becomes pretty obvious.  But, there are 
two facts about our way of being that are at first perhaps not so 
obvious:


=== END OF PAGE 432 ===