=== PAGE 551 ===

 
 
 
Aft erword 537
substances with certain properties, but instead the clearing that is open to possibil-
ity. What The Forum refuses to provide, and in fact cannot provide based on its own 
method of exploration, is some story about the ultimate “meaning of life.” The three
y
Western monotheisms provide such stories, which have inspired faith for many cen-
turies. Instead of off ering such a story, however, The Forum leaves to participants 
the task of establishing goals and organizing their lives to achieve them. The issue of 
an otherworldly, metaphysical eschaton does not come up, except when it is brought 
up by participants, and then The Forum leader typically brings the conversation 
back to the here and now, to what’s right in front of the participant. And yet, accord-
ing to Erhard, most clergy, be they priest, nun, rabbi, minister, or imam, have left  the
est Training or The Forum with a deeper relation to their particular practice of faith.
t
Deflecting and dismissing “metaphysical” concerns is a common practice
among Zen masters. Having been knocked off  a bridge into the water below by a
Zen master exasperated by his student’s persistent metaphysical questioning, for 
example, one Zen student finally “awakened.” The key was finally realizing the futil-
ity of such questioning and the opportunity of existing fully in this life, moment by
moment. Another anecdote reveals the inveterate tendency to “go metaphysical,”
as well as the opportunity to follow a diff erent path. A famous Zen koan says: “Show 
me your original face before you were born!” I used to think that the answer to this
koan had something to do with revealing who I was in the bardo, the realm in which
one’s “habit-energy” dwells before manifesting itself in a new body-mind.  This is 
“going metaphysical” in a way suggested by some Buddhist discourse. Only recently
did I arrive at a very diff erent interpretation of the koan, one consistent with what I
learned in the Training and later in The Forum. The key is what word to stress in the 
koan: “Show me your original face before YOU were born!” By “you,” the koan has
in mind the fear-driven, greedy, delusional being that I had turned myself into. I did 
not show up in the world like that, but gave birth to that unhappy self by decisions I 
made while growing up. Not long ago, when I asked Werner Erhard if he agreed with
this interpretation of the koan, he said “Yes! That’s it!”
Erhard, Heidegger, and The Forum
Around the time I took the Training, I had been reading psychiatrist Irvin D. Yalom’s
Existential Therapy, which argued that much human suff ering arose from not allow-
ing anxiety and ontological guilt to play the revelatory and transformative role they
could play in human existence.9 Citing authors such as Ernst Becker, author of The 
Denial of Death, Yalom remarked that we shrink from life, we hide ourselves away, in 
order to avoid paying the debt: death.10 Finitude is essential to authentic existence.
Staying in touch with mortality encourages us to be present each moment, rather 
than fleeing into the myriad distractions now available. 
I wrote to Yalom to see if I could study with him during a six-month sabbatical, 
which I planned to spend in the Bay Area in the first half of 1982. He suggested that I
would benefit more by studying and teaching at the California School of Profession-
al Psychology in Berkeley. (The work I did there led to my subsequent appointment 
as a clinical professor in the Psychiatry Department at Tulane University School of 
Medicine.) Shortly aft er arriving in Berkeley in early January, Hubert Dreyfus invited 
me to his house for dinner. Dreyfus was a leading interpreter of Heidegger’s philos-
ophy and later was professor emeritus for many years at the University of California
at Berkeley. Soon, I discovered that he, too, had done the Training, that he had been 
blown away by it, that he knew Werner Erhard, and that he was co-director of the 
PhD dissertation of Fernando Flores, who combined elements of speech act theory, 
which he learned from Berkeley philosopher John Searle, with Heidegger’s view of 
temporal-historical human existence, to develop a powerful vision of “conversation
for action” in the “off ice of the future.” Erhard, a brilliant man in his own right, quick-
ly came to appreciate the role played by language in creating futures where none 
seemed possible. This is a story for another time, however.11
Even before meeting Flores and learning something about Heidegger’s thought,
Erhard and colleagues had been planning to redesign the Training. Erhard invited 
Dreyfus and me to develop philosophical critiques of the Training. We gladly con-
sented to do so, because both of us had gained so much from it. Each of us sat in on
Trainings given at diff erent times and locations, then composed our assessments
of what we witnessed.12 In May 1982 I met with Erhard, Flores, and several of their 
colleagues to discuss my findings. The papers that Dreyfus and I wrote contributed 
to what would become The Forum, the first version of which was presented in San 
Francisco in 1985. It was a pleasure to attend that signal event. I am proud and hap-
py to have made a contribution to the emergence of The Forum.
Not long ago, I re-read the 104-page transcript of the discussion about my 
critique of the Training. Doing so confirmed for me that Erhard had already come
up with the key elements of the Training, later The Forum, independently of what
y
he learned about Heidegger from Flores, Dreyfus, me, and others. Heidegger’s ideas 
were remarkably similar to Erhard’s in many ways, and Erhard learned some valu-
able distinctions from Heidegger, but they arrived at their major ideas on their own.
Heidegger’s writings have had an enormous influence on twentieth-century
philosophy in Europe, Latin America, and to a lesser extent in the United States. 
Perhaps his university teaching helped to evoke transformation experiences on the 


=== END OF PAGE 551 ===