=== PAGE 351 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
337
ERHARD
And if you don’t get called on, you don’t get called on.
KEVIN
You’re right.
ERHARD
And that’s the way that it is. And you could make a great big drama out of that. “Wes doesn’t 
like me. Kipp doesn’t like me even more. Nobody likes me. They’re trying to torture me. I really 
got something to say that’s important. I gotta get up here, nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah 
nah nah.” Very good Kevin. Go on.
KEVIN
I was like that. Is it okay if I say something to somebody else in the group?
ERHARD
Not usually. But in your case we’ll make an exception. Go ahead. 
(laughter)
I appreciate your asking.
KEVIN
Well I’d like to talk to someone in the group but I’m not quite sure how to handle it, but I’ll 
count on you to stop me if I get out of line. I heard myself, as I told you before, I had every-
body’s racket so maybe I’m a good person to talk to everybody because I’ve got everybody’s 
racket. But maybe everybody here has everybody’s racket... But there was a young person last 
night that really got to me because I saw myself in that young person, maybe twenty, thirty 
years ago, and I really wish I could talk to that young person but I don’t think I’ll be able to talk 
to that young person because I got a feeling that that young person probably isn’t listening to 
me right now.
WES
Actually I think they are. I think everybody is. I don’t believe what you... I don’t accept what 
you’re saying. So let me tell you what you are saying: The future needs to be just like the past; 
nobody can learn from anything. Everybody has to go through the same mistakes. It’s bullshit. 
Something’s happening in the room in the conversation where the person twenty years young-
er than you, Kevin, is getting you. And the benefi t of the twenty years you screwed your life up.
KEVIN
I’m sorry, but I think that’s completely wrong, because I think that person’s sitting there 
thinking “I can’t possibly learn anything from this old fart,” and...


=== END OF PAGE 351 ===