=== PAGE 474 ===

460
SPEAKING BEING
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 11)
Exactly. And my wife also saw this. Our marriage was a decision, and not a choice. I am now 
the possibility to choose to be married. I am choosing to be married.
KIPP
Which transforms the past. You can choose into the past and transform the past.
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 11)
Thank you!
KIPP
Thank you very much.
(applause)
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 12)
I was walking outside and I turned to someone and I said, “Man that ‘problems’ talk was a 
bitch. I really had a lot of problems with going unconscious, it was really diffi  cult for me.” 
And she said “that’s because you make everything a problem.” And I said “What do you mean 
I make everything a problem?” And I saw right there that my response to some issue coming 
up, some problem is “this shouldn’t be. I don’t want this. This is crap.” And that’s the way I 
would literally be about anything unexpected or that I didn’t want to have happen, when I’m 
at home, I don’t want this. And what I saw in the choice distinction that I haven’t somehow 
had come together so I could see this: what it is a conversation. That’s all a problem is, is 
a conversation. There’s no problem out here. There’s only a conversation. It isn’t anything 
else. There’s no problem out here. It is a conversation. And what it means to choose it is to 
choose that conversation right there. So that conversation is called “I don’t want to be in that 
relationship right now.” Or if it’s a conversation called “My car!” or whatever the conversation 
is. I would have that conversation, whatever it was, with myself. And the problem would linger 
as a private personal conversation that I kept going on with myself. But I would never choose 
the conversation. I wouldn’t choose that private conversation. And what I saw was that in my 
relationship, or that in any problem, it’s that moment I choose that conversation right there and 
externalize that, get that out here in our relationship, make it public. 
KIPP (to the group)
Watch out for listening to this like a formula, or for the seven easy steps for relating. It’s a 
distinction he’s sharing.
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 12)
Yes. And that’s what there is to choose, not what’s out there but what is right here, and to 
communicate what’s right here. All of a sudden I got freedom, I had release, I was awake again. 
It wasn’t something I couldn’t do. “Choose that” had always been to me: “submit to it,” or “give 
in to it,” or “suppress what you don’t like about it.” That’s what choice was about. Rather than, 
“If I’m having a conversation called ‘I don’t like that,’ choose that conversation ‘I don’t like 


=== END OF PAGE 474 ===