=== PAGE 287 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Four 
273
ERHARD
Hold on a second. You notice he didn’t say he was confused. You want to listen that he’s 
saying the same things a lot of other people have said in here. Talking about not quite getting 
something yet. But he’s talking about it, he has framed it, he’s construed it, he’s spoken it so that 
there’s an opening for him to get it. Rather than a way that there is no opening for him to get it 
so that Kipp has to beat him up to get him to get it.
FRED
So what I was looking at, the possibility that empty and meaningless, if we had the opposite 
of that, if life was full and fulfi lling there would be no space for me to come up, to express 
myself, to be fully blown as a human being, in the sense that I would be spending all my time 
trying to fi nd out what’s the meaning of life if it’s already so full? I’m looking at empty and 
meaninglessness as a place to start from like it’s empty, it’s open.
ERHARD
Here’s the problem in that. It’s one of the problems Kipp and I have in leading The Forum. 
This empty and meaningless you’ve got to get just like it is. You can’t get it as a place to start. 
If you’re getting it like a place to start you’re getting it in-order-to. You’ve got to kill hope. 
Otherwise your life is going to be full of hopelessness. See the one thing that goes away with 
hope... When you suff er the pain of getting rid of hope, the other thing that goes away with it 
is “hopeless.” We’re going to get a little deeper into this business about empty and meaningless 
and take a look at what the structure is. If it’s all empty and meaningless then how did all this 
crap happen? Everyone’s seen enough crap to be clear about the amount of crap there is? We 
don’t need to do more crap in here?
Erhard stopped to acknowledge a participant for how diff erent she looked from the fi rst day.
ERHARD (continuing)
In Fred’s straight talk about it, I want you to get that you’ve got to get it just to get it, not in-
order-to. See if there’s an iota of getting out of the trap in your getting it, you didn’t get it. You 
gotta go through the despair, you gotta go through whatever emotion you have, or whatever 
mood you’ve got about it. You’ve got to get it cleanly. You can’t get it knowing that there’s going 
to be a way out, because the way out is the way in. See if you get it knowing there’s going to be a 
way out, you didn’t get it because you got it in a way that’s going to keep you in. I had forgotten 
who I was talking to over here in the last session, what I said, that the attempt to get out of the 
trap... you know, what makes Californians silly is their attempt to get out of the trap, because 
the attempt to get out of the trap is being in the trap. What it is to be in the trap is to try to get 
out of the trap. You can’t get out if you try, because trying to get out is part of the trap. You read 
the right books, and they tell you that. Okay, so you fi gure, I’m going to give up trying to get out 
of the trap. Well, that’s part of the trap. See, you can’t get out if you try, because trying to get 
out is being in the trap. And you can’t get out if you don’t try. There’s no getting out of the trap. 
There’s no way to win this game; you can’t beat this one. You’ve got to be able to be in the trap. 
Every one of those words was chosen very carefully. You should listen to them very rigorously. 
Giving up, surrendering to the trap: won’t work. All that’ll do is leave you in the trap. Trying to 
“ 
When you suff er the pain of getting rid of 
hope, the other thing that goes away with 
it is ‘hopeless.’


=== END OF PAGE 287 ===