=== PAGE 515 ===

Forum Day Four: Session Three 501
Erhard called on Jane, the young woman with whom he had interacted with on Days Two and Three 
about her being “worthless” after having no one she invited come to her birthday party.
ERHARD
Jane and I were having a discussion when she was standing over there. And I said: “are you 
going to act out of being worthless and ugly?” And she said “not as much but probably some.” 
Right? Something close to that?
JANE
Yeah.
ERHARD
Is that true or false? It’s neither. The question is garbage. She has shaped the possibility for her 
future actions because she shaped the world as an occurring, by speaking a possibility. She said 
“my possibility is limited to this.” 
(holding up both hands to eye level)
This is how big the possibility is. It’s that big because she said so. It’s not that big because she 
believes it’s that big, and not because it is that big, not because it’s her opinion that it’s that big. 
It’s that big because she said so. Remember, languaging is not just what’s coming out of your 
mouth. I don’t say “in a glass,” and yet it’s there in languaging. I want to make sure nobody 
confuses what we are saying with “positive thinking.” See, I’m not asking her to think positively. 
I don’t like positive thinking. I’m an anti-positive thinker. I like honest thinking, not positive 
thinking. I like straight thinking, not positive thinking. I know that possibility is a product of 
languaging, but I don’t like the word product: possibility arises in language... and that Jane 
can be a conversation for the possibility of anything she wants to be. See, where am I going to 
fi nd “ugly”? Can I fi nd anything ugly in somebody’s face? This is not some nice platitudinal 
horseshit. Things are ugly, but they’re ugly in people’s mouths, not on people’s faces. Ugly is not 
a phenomenon that arises independent of language. My dog looks at me and sees neither ugly, 
nor anything else about me, because ugly is a phenomenon that only arises in language. There’s 
no ugly in anybody’s face or body. Faces and bodies are just like they are. Ugly is a phenomenon 
that only arises in language. This doesn’t sound very useful, does it? It sounds what you call 
abstract or conceptual. See, there’s a diff erence between is ugly and occurs as ugly. What’s 
the diff erence between is ugly and occurs as ugly? Something called plasticity, malleability, or 
something more aptly called possibility. If something is ugly you’ve got to adjust to it, don’t you? 
(forcefully)
It is ugly so you have to adjust to it. If it occurs as ugly there’s the possibility of some 
malleability, some plasticity, you might be able to shape it in a new way if it occurs as ugly. I 
want you to begin to see that there’s a lot of what you deal with that only arises in language. 
And because it only arises in language, you’ve got something to say about it. You’ve got 
something to say about being ugly—no shit—because ugly only arises in language. I’ve seen 
a lot of women whose features don’t measure the perfect standard who are extraordinarily 
beautiful and so has every other man in this room. Beauty is not a matter of standard features. 
flexible, longer lasting, etc.” Tabachnick continues, explaining that, 
for example,
A doctor may “bring forth” the already avail-
able health of an individual through medicine,
whereas cloning or genetic engineering “chal-
lenge” the natural bounds of the body, creating 
a wholly new “artifact” with diff erent charac-
teristics. As Heidegger details, earlier human
inventions did not permanently impose a new
form onto nature. Under normal conditions, be-
cause the material of an artifact was still bound
by natural characteristics, nature would always
“shine through” the imposition of the artist,
craft sman or technician. A carpenter imposes
the form of a chair onto wood, but once the
chair is finished that wood still maintains its
natural characteristics to rot and decompose
in the same way a fallen tree rots and decom-
poses on the forest floor. In other words, the
craft sman’s chair is a site of openness for the
revealing of nature. (Tabachnick 2004)
“
Tabachnick compares these earlier technologies with some that 
are representative of more recent developments, “technologies 
that do not co-operate with nature but attempt to replace it”: 
A nuclear engineer can manipulate the struc-
ture of natural elements to produce artificial
elements. Plutonium, for example, is designed to
never abide by or return to the characteristics of 
the uranium from which it was derived. The char-
acter of plutonium (i.e., its level of radioactivity)
is always artificial. Likewise, the genetically
altered human is designed to never return to the
natural characteristics of the material from which
it was derived (e.g., a sick or weak body) and
thus is always artificial. In turn, contemporary
“


=== END OF PAGE 515 ===