=== PAGE 364 ===

350
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
Nobody said “quit.” Okay go on.
DENNIS
Right, I know. When I try to make sense out of believing there is no meaning...
ERHARD
No, I don’t want you to believe that there’s no meaning; that would make you crazy. 
DENNIS
Yeah, if I went home and said that life doesn’t make any sense, it doesn’t mean anything...
ERHARD
I didn’t say it doesn’t make any sense. I said it’s empty and meaningless, and it’s empty and 
meaningless that it’s empty and meaningless. That’s all I’ve said. And if you went home and 
said it’s empty and meaningless and it’s empty and meaningless that it’s empty and meaning-
less, you would get into trouble. See, just like I would get into trouble if I said that to people 
who didn’t pay me $625. And I don’t say it to people who don’t pay me $625, and then I don’t 
say it until the third day. Don’t tell people life is empty and meaningless, because they can’t 
hear you. They can’t hear that because it’s all the way down at the bottom. Where are they? 
They’re all the way up at the top. They’re fl oating on all that soap opera and drama, all those 
rackets and all that act. They can’t see down through the murk that it’s empty and meaning-
less. What you’ve been through is designed to take you down one layer at a time, until you can 
get far enough down so that you can see that all the way down it’s empty and meaningless. 
And it’s very, very diffi  cult to get down there because you can’t use that. And that’s kind of 
what you’re complaining about. It didn’t leave you feeling wonderful. It didn’t leave you free 
and easy and wonderful, and it never does until you get there. The secret is perfectly hidden. 
That’s why almost nobody gets it. It’s why it took three days, four days of hammering to get you 
close to getting it. And you may not get it. But I want you to know something: That’s all there is 
to get here. What there is to get for your $625, and the four days and three hours crushing your 
backside, is that life is empty and meaningless, and that it’s empty and meaningless that it’s 
empty and meaningless. And that the soap opera you’ve made out of your life is a very bad joke. 
It’s a bad joke. You’ve made everything signifi cant and meaningful and it’s caused you to suff er. 
And not only the bad things, but you suff er the good things, because the good things don’t 
leave you fulfi lled and whole and complete. They don’t leave you full of joy and satisfi ed. So 
you not only suff er the bad things, you suff er the good things as well. Your life is nothing but 
suff ering. And the source of suff ering is a lie. There’s only one source of suff ering. The source 
of suff ering is a lie. Stop lying and you’ll stop suff ering. And the fundamental lie is that it all 
means something, that it’s going to work out, that you’re going to make it someday, that you’re 
going to get there, that someday the fairy prince is going to come along, or the fairy princess is 
going to come along, or someday the right job, or someday the right life, or someday the right 
body. That’s the lie that keeps the suff ering in place. When you get to empty and meaningless 
you get that there’s no more suff ering. All there is, is possibility. Freedom. Openness. But you 
Your life is nothing but suff ering. And the 
source of suff ering is a lie. There’s only one 
source of suff ering. The source of suff ering is a 
lie. Stop lying and you’ll stop suff ering. And the
fundamental lie is that it all means something, 
that it’s going to work out, that you’re going
to make it someday, that you’re going to get 
there, that someday the fairy prince is going
to come along, or the fairy princess is going
to come along, or someday the right job, or 
someday the right life, or someday the right 
body. That’s the lie that keeps the suff ering 
in place.
“


=== END OF PAGE 364 ===