=== PAGE 23 ===

 
Forum Day One: Session One 
9
ERHARD
Very, very little in life turns out the way it was promised. So I remember my mother told me if I 
was a good boy everything would be great in life. I tried it for one day and it didn’t work. People 
are told that when they graduate life will be wonderful, life will be easy, and it didn’t turn out 
that way. When you get married it’ll be great but it doesn’t turn out that way. People say when 
you get divorced it’ll be all right but it doesn’t turn out that way. Most things don’t live up to
their promises.
RUTH
And what about the promises of The Forum?
ERHARD
Based on surveys, most people who’ve done this work say it turned out better than they expect-
ed. For you that’ll be easy, because you have a pessimistic view about how things’ll turn out. 
We’ve got your six hundred dollars. You’re not going to get it back. Given that conversation’s 
over, it’ll turn out however it turns out. You know, I’ve never been wrong about that.
(To Ruth)
I could say a lot of things to reassure you, and that would be a mistake. Your pessimism is you.
(raising his voice, he turned to the group)
Listen up! If you haven’t noticed, The Forum has begun. See, you and I think that our mood, 
our internal state, the way we are seeing things; we think that is a product of the circumstanc-
t
es. So I look at something and I like it, or I look at something and I don’t like it. I think if I 
like it, it’s the fault of the thing I’m looking at, and if I don’t like it, I think it’s the fault of the 
thing I’m looking at. That’s the kind of thing that generates in me: “like”; and that’s the kind 
of thing that generates in me: “don’t like.” You and I think that our way of being is a product of 
what’s over there. As you will see as we do The Forum together a lot of what is going on with
you and me is something we already always are. It’s something I am before anything happens. 
I’m kind of a pessimist waiting for life to happen, or I’m an optimist waiting for life to happen. 
About certain kinds of things I’m a pessimist before I even look at them, and then when I look 
at them, it’s hard for me to recognize that the pessimism isn’t generated out of the thing I’m 
looking at, but it’s something I brought with me. Kind of like I was already always pessimistic
and then this thing came along. So it’s good that you’re pessimistic, and if you’re not pessimis-
tic, that’s good too.
(to Ruth)
If you find yourself being that way, don’t try to change it. What’s good is whatever you are, 
because that’s what you want to bring into The Forum. If you deal with that pessimism
which you are in a certain way, you’ll have a choice about being pessimistic when it is ap-
propriate. Pessimism is not a bad idea, and if you didn’t have pessimism I would give it to 
you, because one of the things you’re going to find in here is that we ask you not to believe 
anything that’s said in here. We’ll talk more about that later. At any rate, the point that 
project. There is a sense in which we don’t know what we are
talking about, and the emphasis in that sentence should be placed 
on the word “know,” as implying a secure conceptual grasp. 
Talking about Being is challenging and sometimes feels, to use
the vernacular, weird. Being is both pervasive and evanescent. It 
is elusive, vanishing even as it appears. 
In his writing about Being (and all of his writing is about 
Being), Heidegger celebrates the ambiguity surrounding the topic.
This is “something which every thinker has to see afresh each 
time, else he is not a thinker: that everything that lies before us is
ambiguous” (WCT 201). However, this does not mean fuzziness at
T
the expense of rigor: 
NOTE:  Erhard believes that Heidegger’s use of the word 
“thought” leaves people misled about what Heidegger 
means in the following way: Perhaps the word “thought” is 
valid for what is written down for people to consider, but it
did not come from “thinking”—by which most people will
understand “figuring it out”—it came from something like 
“looking,” or “just being with,” and is pointed to by the word 
“wonder” (Erhard, interview with the authors).
This multiplicity of possible interpretations
does not discredit the strictness of the thought
content. For all true thought remains open 
to more than one interpretation—and this by 
reason of its nature. Nor is this multiplicity of 
possible interpretations merely the residue
of a still unachieved formal-logical univocity 
which we properly ought to strive for but did 
not attain. Rather, multiplicity of meanings is 
the element in which all thought must move in 
order to be strict thought. (WCT 71)
T
“


=== END OF PAGE 23 ===