=== PAGE 39 ===

 
Forum Day One: Session One 
25
just now? Because I want to get this story up. There’s a lot of people with that story here and
I want to get that story killed. I got people’s attention here. I got your attention too, but more
important: I got their attention.
(to the group)
I know you’ve got a story about how you got here. That’s your story. I don’t know what the truth 
is. I know Bill was a pain in the ass.
BILL
Thank you.
ERHARD
You were, and you probably are most of the time. Do other people in here know you?
BILL
I’m not sure.
ERHARD
If I had a group of your friends here and asked them, “can Bill be a real pain in the ass?” what 
would they say? 
BILL 
Well I imagine if they pushed me to extremes...
(laughter)
ERHARD (shaking his head)
Wait, wait. That’s not what I mean. I mean, if I said to your friends, “can Bill be a real pain in
the ass?” what would they say? I would bet they would say “yes.” More than infrequently.
BILL
What about your friends?
ERHARD
Let me explain something to you.
BILL
You put me on the spot, why can’t I put you on the spot?
ERHARD
I didn’t pay to be in here, you did. Because you invested $625 to come to my seminar. But if I
leave here and I’m still an asshole, I didn’t lose anything. If you’ve got a seminar that keeps you 
in our moods, but we tend to turn away from what they might 
reveal. In moods, we find ourselves, but “in a way of finding which 
arises not so much from a direct seeking as rather from a fleeing”
(BT 174). In our assured, everyday way of speaking, we dismiss
T
a state-of-mind, or rather, an attunement, as “just a mood I’m 
in.” But in doing so, we evade a more primordial disclosure, an
understanding which stares us in the face “with the inexorability
of an enigma” (BT 175). 
T
At this early point in the proceedings, Erhard is making two 
important moves. First, he is suggesting to the participants that
the nature of their moods is not what they have taken them to
be. They are not a product of the circumstances, but are instead 
an aspect of their own way of being. Second, he is urging the
participants not to attempt to avoid or transcend their moods,
however uncomfortable they may seem, but rather to allow them,
and to bring them into The Forum so that they can be part of the 
process. As The Forum proceeds, these suggestions will be seen
as crucial to the development of the ontological dialogue. ■


=== END OF PAGE 39 ===