=== PAGE 59 ===

Forum Day One: Session Two
45
ERHARD
What have you got going on?
JAKE
I’m one of those people who stood up that said I’m a person of my word.
ERHARD
And you’re not. Isn’t that true? You do what you say you’re gonna do?
JAKE
I damn well try.
ERHARD
Very good. “I am a person who will do what I say I am going to do, when in fact, I am only a 
person who will try to do what I said I will do, and what I mean by try is, given the way I see 
things, which will be generated by my feelings, my mood, if I can see that I can’t do it, I won’t
do it. But I’m not gonna tell you that. I’m going to tell you that I’m a person of my word.”
Erhard sat on the edge of the platform facing Jake.
ERHARD (continuing)
Try to sit down.
(Jake sat) 
No, you sat down.
(Jake stood)
I didn’t say sit down. Try to sit down.
(again he sat)
No, you’re sitting. I said try to sit.
JAKE
I’m not getting it.
ERHARD
You’re getting it. You don’t like it. Trying to sit down looks a lot like standing up. You’re just a 
bullshit artist. That’s not a bad thing to be, by the way. It’s just a thing with no power.
JAKE
I’m getting that, but I don’t see the point. What is it worth?
The Heideggerian notion of “dwelling” is central to the way 
in which The Forum material is to be assimilated. Dwelling, for 
Erhard, is synonymous with “coming from”—that is, to dwell 
in a context is to come from that context into one’s life, or to 
allow oneself to be given being by that context. Heidegger 
called dwelling “the basic character of Being in keeping with 
which mortals exist” (“BDT” in PLT 158). Dwelling, for Heidegger, 
designates that ontological state in which we attain our essential 
relatedness to the world, so we must “think for the sake of 
dwelling” (“BDT” in PLT 159).
However, a point that we will introduce here and to which 
we will return throughout this book, is that Being withdraws. The 
ontological communication of The Forum, the speaking of Being, 
occurs always in this precarious context: it wavers on the brink 
of concealment. Thus the process of dwelling-in-a-distinction 
consists of repeatedly “getting” and “losing” that distinction. 
Erhard consistently tells his audiences that if they “got it and it 
went away,” that is the appropriate way to assimilate ontological 
communication: “That’s the way it’s supposed to happen,” he says, 
“getting and losing and getting and losing and getting and losing” 
(“Beyond the Winning Formula”). This is an essential aspect of the 
ontological rhetoric whose nature we are developing here, and it is 
consistent with the authors’ own experience of having participated 
in Werner Erhard’s programs: the insights that we have attained in 
the process have occurred waveringly.
As we have participated over the years in courses and 
seminars based in Erhard’s work, something would oft en be 
said which in that instant produced an illuminating insight, but 
which seemed, a moment or an hour later, to be simply words, 
or even incomprehensible jargon. Longitudinally, however—over 
the years of our participation in this work—we are aware of a 
parallel development: a gradually increasing dwelling-in the way 
of being that has been opened up by the distinctions which we are 
simultaneously getting and losing. Further, this ongoing dwelling-
in has, over the years, become more salient than the getting 
and losing. That is, we notice that we increasingly act from the 


=== END OF PAGE 59 ===