=== PAGE 453 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
439
KIPP (to the group)
And everything we’re starting to distinguish—you didn’t come equipped with this. You’ve got
to invent it. We’re beginning to invent a body of distinctions beyond what you got when you
became a human being. You’re not used to this; it’s going to take real thinking. This is what 
Einstein was talking about: The problems that we’ve got are not going to be solved at the level of 
thinking that created them. What’s required is a new level of thinking. Choice requires thinking. 
(to Joan)
Start your own business or work for a small company: choose!
JOAN
Start my own business.
KIPP
Great! And why did you make that choice? “I’m going to start my own company because...”
JOAN
...because if I don’t do it in my life, I’m going to be really disappointed.
KIPP
Perfect decision! The reason “because I’ll really be disappointed”—that’s what’s getting you
going again, that reason. Choice isn’t based on that, it’s to select freely: You are the chooser. You 
simply choose because you choose. You can still look at all that stuff . Look at this part of it and 
that part of it, but when it comes to a choice it’s you choosing. Ready? Start your own business,
work for a small company: choose!
JOAN
I choose starting my own company because it’s what I want to do.
KIPP
That’s a wonderful want.
JOAN
Because I think I should do it.
KIPP
And your wants and shoulds, which are totally a product of your past, now have you starting 
your own small business and what you’re going to be given—see the important thing is—if 
that’s what gets her into that game, she’s going to have whatever she’s got from her past. Every-
thing she needs for that is going to be given by the past because she’s not there starting her own 
small business; it’s the past starting her own small business, and she’ll have whatever power,
ability, excellence, and all that other stuff  she’s got from her past, and not “you,” because you


=== END OF PAGE 453 ===