=== PAGE 291 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Four 
277
(to another participant sitting next to the participant who said she does what she wants to do)
Sit on her lap, or hold her arms down, or something.
(the other participant sits on the fi rst participant’s lap)
Now: want to stand up.
(the participant cannot stand up)
So, you don’t always do what you want to do. And you don’t do what you like to do. You do what 
you do. That’s all you ever do. You’ve always done what you did, and sometimes coincidentally, 
from time to time it happens to be what you wanted to do.
PARTICIPANT
That’s nonsense.
ERHARD
It is nonsensical. 
PARTICIPANT
Then why do The Forum?
ERHARD
That’s what I said. We’re going to stop doing The Forum as soon as I fi nd someone who did 
something they didn’t do. 
A participant named Kevin stood, who, during Erhard’s conversation with Jacob in the previous 
session, had complained that the camera pointing at Jacob was also pointing at people in the “no-
video” section.
KEVIN
I came to The Forum very skeptical of the whole thing. My feeling was that I would probably 
get something out of it. I was sure I was going to have to go through so much bullshit I wasn’t 
sure I was going to last it out. As it turned out that was partially true, because I, like a bunch of 
other people, I sense, I felt like we were being sold the next session at every opportunity. But at 
this point in the game I’m willing to accept that too. It wasn’t as bad as I thought it was going 
to be. I didn’t really start to get into this until yesterday, or maybe it was today. In searching for 
my racket, I just couldn’t seem to fi nd my racket. But during the sharing, I had the feeling that 
every single person who stood, everyone’s racket seemed to be my racket. I couldn’t believe it. 
Today I guess I made a breakthrough. 
WES
Hold on. I want to complete this stuff  about “I guess I had a breakthrough.” I don’t mean even 
the “guess” part. Where are you looking to declare a breakthrough? Where does breakthrough 
occur?


=== END OF PAGE 291 ===