=== PAGE 468 ===

454
SPEAKING BEING
KIPP
Moment by moment by moment by moment choosing that. 
MONTY
Right. In and out of, and I’m sure, I get I’m real excited about what I’ve realized and then it’s 
gone.
KIPP 
You have no muscles in this area yet. You have teeny-weeny baby muscles in this area. What 
this work is about, what the seminar’s about is the Nautilus of Possibility. 
(laughter)
It’s true! You have no muscles for this. You cannot stay unhooked for more than fi ve minutes. 
Somebody who looks like your mother walks by, and you’re three years old: You’re gone! It’s not 
bad to be weak. It’s just stupid to lie about it if you are. That’s what’s been disempowering you. 
Not your weakness. It’s been your act of saying that you’re not. The moment you get to be weak, 
you can start building some muscle. It’s going to take everything you got in your life. You’ve got 
to have people around you that are more committed to you than you are. 
MONTY
That’s what it is. The people I’ve met here are more committed to me than I’ve ever been 
committed to myself in my whole life. 
KIPP
The conversation that comes with being a human being is not on your side. On my pillow in the 
morning, the conversation that’s never there—I never wake up into: “Why don’t you get up and 
jog?”
(laughter)
Never, it’s always a committee about how many times I’ve done it already this week, what the 
weather’s like, why I really shouldn’t today because I need my rest. It’s never on my side; it’s 
always telling me: “Slow down. What are you doing this to yourself for? No jogging. What you 
need to do for yourself is get up and go to the fridge, pull out that piece of chocolate cake you 
didn’t eat last night, bring it back to your bed, eat it in bed, and then sleep some more.” 
MONTY
It’s real easy for me to make, like you and Wes and Werner, and other people, like not... not be 
like that. And therefore...
KIPP
We’re not like that? That’s true. Yeah, you can be like us someday.
(Monty laughs and so does Kipp)
He’s not sure! 


=== END OF PAGE 468 ===