=== PAGE 305 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Four 
291
(many responding “yes”)
Remember I said “you become something.” You are worthless. Or to say it with a little bit more 
rigor: You now are that you are worthless. Everybody got that? Anybody didn’t get that? Okay 
good. Now what we’re going to look at is where did all this mess get generated? Why would 
anybody be stupid enough to generate the kind of mess you got? Anybody not clear there’s a 
mess here? Do we need to get more mess up for you? Everybody’s got a mess. People in here 
are in good shape to start with, and still we’ve got a mess. Can you imagine what it would be 
like for somebody who is in bad shape? We screen out people who are in bad shape. We only 
let people in here who are in good shape. Most people who have participated in our programs 
are above average in their adjustment to life; they are able to handle life on average. What we’re 
going to look at here is where did this mess come from?
(pausing)
Now you’ve got to get back to where Jane was. I said I want you to be standing in being a 
four-, fi ve-, six-year-old and I want you to tell me—I want to know-what it looked like from 
there. So you want to get there in order to get this. You’ve got to be a little girl whose mother 
is gone. Either abandoned her or taken away from her, whose only place of belonging is in her 
relationship with her father. And that bond that represents for her the only place of belonging, 
which represents for her “home”—I don’t mean a building with a family in it—I mean a home, 
like being home, home. Being home, home. And that bond, which represents being home: home 
is broken. And so what do you suppose you decide when that happens? You got any idea what 
you decided when things got to be that rotten?
JANE
I think I decided not to love her and ignore her.
ERHARD
Yeah. Very good. And you’ve been working over on top of that trying to be good about, trying to 
love her and trying to respect her? Yes?
JANE
Yes. But I can’t do it.
ERHARD
Yeah. That’s what you decided about the situation. What did you decide about life? Can you 
remember? Take a look.
JANE
I would try to outdo her so my dad would like me more than her. 
ERHARD
Yeah. That’s great. So that’s looking into the situation. You decided that about the situation with 
your stepmom. What I want to know and what I want you to look at Jane is if you can see what 
you decided about life itself. Take a look and see what you decided about life itself.


=== END OF PAGE 305 ===