=== PAGE 485 ===

Forum Day Four: Session Three 471
NICK
I’m not sure that that has something to do with being a nobody, but I think it has something to 
do with being a nobody, because when I looked at the alternative to being a nobody, it wasn’t 
being somebody, because I created nobody to be somebody. And I know that sounds weird, but 
a nobody is a somebody; it’s not a nothing. And yesterday working through our rackets that’s 
what I was present to, and this afternoon talking about choice, the thing that I saw that I got 
out of all that was that I got to avoid the domination of being responsible for my life. Because, 
at that moment, if I could re-create it the way it looked, was... the choice was either to be, was 
not either to be nobody or to be somebody, the choice was to be nobody or to have to create it 
ongoingly. 
ERHARD
You want to get that last thing you said, Nick. That’s a critical point. Say it again.
NICK
The choice wasn’t between being somebody and nobody. The choice was really between being a 
somebody called a nobody, or nothing. And that just looked like absolute domination. 
ERHARD
The domination of the responsibility to create yourself. Better to be a nobody and avoid the 
domination of the responsibility to generate yourself.
NICK
Anything that is an opportunity to be somebody is a hook for me. Anything. And I am like an 
addict for...
ERHARD 
You understand that Nick sharing this with you takes the air out of it for him to some degree. 
That you can’t quite ever do that like you used to once you’ve shared it with people. You can’t 
quite get away with it anymore. You know, it’s become a public conversation. And you can’t 
get away with it as much anymore. You know Nick will try, because he’s thrown to that. And 
you and I will try what we are thrown to. But once you’ve made it public, you can never... it 
never quite has the grip on you that it used to. It never quite has the ability to own you that it 
used to.
NICK
I really have to laugh at myself, because...
ERHARD
That’s the place you want to get to about your racket.
NICK
There’s really two pieces to that. If you’re a nobody trying to be a somebody: That’s crazy. I 
mean, that’s crazy.


=== END OF PAGE 485 ===