=== PAGE 275 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 261
experience at the moment, some people at this point are high. Some people are angry. Some 
people are sad. Some people are “What’s the big deal?” 
Wes had those in each category raise their hands. On the video each time Wes asked for hands, very 
few went up until the last one: “What’s the big deal?”
WES
It doesn’t mean anything. You can almost be assured that by the time dinner is over you’ll be in 
a diff erent experience anyway. It doesn’t mean anything. 
ERHARD
Who in here knew that it was empty and meaningless? For a long time knew it?
(several participants raise their hands)
You have it like an answer, which is diff erent from how we are saying it here. It’s not a solution 
to a problem, so you smart-asses didn’t get it.
WES
Let yourself be where you are. The other assignment: see if you have any questions about the 
seminar program.
ERHARD
Up till now we’ve talked about dog shit. Now we’re going to talk about the truth. The truth 
about the truth is that it doesn’t mean anything. It’s just the truth. People do occasionally 
stumble into the truth. Sometimes they fall over the truth. But they invariably suck the power 
out of it, the truth-value out of it and turn it into an empty shell. And they do that by trying to 
make the truth useful. The truth is useless. I mean that the truth does not justify anything. If 
you stumble across the truth, or had a fl ash of insight, and you use it to explain something, if it 
was true, it’s now not true, because you’ve taken the truth out of the context in which it exists, 
which context is useless, and put it into a context in which it cannot exist as the truth, which is 
“use.” The truth is useless. It gives no prescriptions. None. It’s never the basis for a rule, never 
the basis for a prescription. The truth is useless. So anything you’re doing based on the truth is 
based on bullshit. You don’t use the truth; the truth uses you. If you want to have a relationship 
with the truth, be a place for the truth to go to work. Don’t try to use it, because when you try 
to use it in any way, it loses its truth-value. If you want some evidence for that, look around the 
world, and the places where you’ll fi nd the greatest destruction, the most evil—those things 
were done in the name of the truth. Don’t fuck with the truth. Let it be. Let it use you. Let it be 
and let it use you. Don’t try to use it. Because if you got lucky and you stumbled over the truth 
and then tried to use it, you sucked all the truth-value that it had; all the power it had as the 
truth is gone.*
If you stumble across the truth, or had a flash 
of insight, and you use it to explain something, 
if it was true, it’s now not true, because you’ve 
taken the truth out of the context in which it 
exists, which context is useless, and put it into 
a context in which it cannot exist as the truth, 
which is “use.”
“
* 
NOTE: Please see the sidebar entitled “The Three Levels of Truth” in Session Two of 
Day Four.


=== END OF PAGE 275 ===