=== PAGE 219 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Two 205
WES
That was the tip of the iceberg. Now we’re going to give you the opportunity to experience the 
whole thing. It’s an exercise designed for you to really confront your fear of living and being 
with people. You may hear people expressing it, crying. Allow yourself to be with your fear of 
other people. If you really allow yourself to experience it, the depth of it may surprise you. You 
have to be willing to take on what I’m asking you to consider and stand in it.
The next forty-fi ve minutes were devoted to the Danger Process. Participants were asked to remain 
in their chairs with their eyes closed and to follow Wes’s instructions, as he directed them to 
surround themselves, in their imaginations with an ever-widening circle of dangerous people. First, 
he told them to imagine that they were afraid of the people sitting on either side of them. After a few 
minutes, he said they should imagine—“create”—that they were afraid of the hundreds of people in 
The Forum room. With each step, participants were urged to create the experience of fear, to “let the 
experience up,” and with each step he allowed time for the fear to be generated. 
As he continued, Wes expanded the fearful environment to include the entire population of San 
Francisco, and then the 250 million people in the United States, and the world (circa 1989). As he 
exhorted participants to create the experience of fear, people began to respond vocally with screams 
and shouts. At fi rst these were isolated, but gradually the room became a cacophony of cries and 
wails. Wes, already using a microphone, had to speak even more loudly to make himself heard over 
the din, as he persisted in his instruction that people let the fear up, that they continue to create for 
themselves this fear of other people. 
This dramatic expression of fear continued at maximum pitch for some fi fteen minutes. As it began 
to subside, a few laughs could be heard permeating the screams, and Wes spoke.
WES
There’s something on the other side of it, something to get. There’s a fundamental absurdity 
about living. All those people you are afraid of? They are, in fact, afraid of you. 
At this point he reversed the process and led participants back through the concentric circles, this 
time pointing out that all of those people they’d been afraid of—the population of the world, the 
country, of California, of San Francisco, the people in The Forum, the people sitting on either side of 
them—were “just as afraid of you as you are of them. Making you the most dangerous person in the 
world.” 
WES (as the laughter diminished)
Going through this exercise is about allowing you to be with your fear, not to get rid of it. This 
may enable you to be compassionate, now that you understand what people are going through, 
including yourself. This won’t make the fear go away, but will allow you to be with it. It’ll still be 
there, but it doesn’t have to stop you. Not overcoming it, not in spite of it, but allowing it to be. 
If you didn’t get it, go out on a street away from the hotel, and when someone approaching you 
is about 3 or 4 feet away, jump out and say boo! 
But recall: Being-in-the-world, as the Being of Dasein, is not 
something separate from Dasein itself. In anxiety, therefore, Dasein—
the “there” of Being-there, the clearing in-the-world for Being—comes 
face-to-face with itself, and not conceptually, but directly. Thrownness 
is disclosed as what it is—a situation with no significance, a world 
that we inhabit because that’s where we showed up. It has us, and it 
has no meaning. And that’s all there is to it. 
Anxiety reveals the nothing. We “hover” in anx-
iety. More precisely, anxiety leaves us hanging
because it induces the slipping away of beings
as a whole. This implies that we ourselves—we
humans who are in being—in the midst of beings
slip away from ourselves... In the altogether un-
settling experience of this hovering where there
is nothing to hold onto, pure Da-sein is all that is 
still there. . . . (“WM” in BW101, emphasis added)
“
The ‘world’ can off er nothing more, and nei-
ther can the Dasein-with of Others. Anxiety 
thus takes away from Dasein the possibility of 
understanding itself, as it falls, in terms of the 
‘world’ and the way things have been publicly
interpreted. (BT 232)
“
And when Being-in-the-world is all there is, what gets revealed is that
In anxiety, the meanings of our everyday reality—the 
interpretations of the they-self—fall away. “Anxiety reveals the 
nothing” (“WM” in BW 101).


=== END OF PAGE 219 ===