=== PAGE 46 ===

32
SPEAKING BEING
Hints: Ontological Distinctions
The Forum achieves its result through the development in dialogue of what Werner 
Erhard calls distinctions. In traditional education, based in an epistemological model 
in which the goal is to increase or enhance what is known, information—concepts, 
ideas, processes—are communicated through definition and explanation. The Fo-
rum, however, develops an ontological model of education, in which the goal is not 
an increase in knowledge but an experience of Being. In this model, the elements of 
the course content are distinguished. 
The nature of distinctions will be addressed at length by Erhard later in The 
Forum. But here, early on the first morning, the development of distinctions is al-
ready under way. Erhard is beginning to employ an aspect of his methodology that, 
according to Martin Heidegger, is central to ontological communication: the use of 
hints to communicate what cannot directly be spoken, thereby providing access to 
the content as lived rather than as merely understood. 
Heidegger introduced the idea of hinting as a way of communicating Being in 
his 1959 essay, “A Dialogue on Language” (in OWL), which provides an account of 
his conversation with a Japanese scholar who shared his interest in ontological 
inquiry. The interaction, presented in the form of a transcript, occurs as a stately 
conversational dance, a linguistic minuet. Each move is made with great care, so the 
interaction proceeds at times with excruciating deliberateness. At one point Heide-
gger (referred to in the account as the Inquirer) poses a question—“Do you have in 
your language a word for what we call language?”—to which the scholar arrives at 
a tentative answer only after twenty-three pages of thoughtful circumnavigation in 
and around the topic. 
In response to a remark by the Japanese about language’s “essential being,” 
Heidegger refers to his often-quoted characterization of language as “the house of 
Being.” The phrase, he says, “gives a hint of the nature of language” (“DL” in OWL 
26). As the two men’s dialogue continues, the extraordinary attentiveness given 
to each word reveals a respect for the nature of hints. Hints, Heidegger observes, 
“belong to an entirely different realm of reality. . . . They are enigmatic. They beckon 
to us. They beckon away. They beckon us toward that from which they unexpectedly 
bear themselves toward us” (“DL” in OWL 26).
In his conversation with the Japanese scholar, Heidegger is distinguishing 
hinting, which is to say that he is hinting at the nature of hints. The Forum’s develop-
ment of distinctions is likewise a process of hinting. 
SESSION ONE INTERVAL
In hinting, words are spoken in such a way that “each word in each case is 
given its full—most often hidden—weight” (“DL” in OWL 31). What is not spoken, but 
communicated in the background, is allowed to reverberate. In this way a space is 
allowed to develop around each utterance:
[Inquirer]: Hints need the widest sphere in which to swing. . .
[Japanese]: . . . where mortals go to and fro only slowly.
[Inquirer]: This is what our language calls “hesitate.” It is done 
truly when slowness rests on shy reverence. And so I do not wish to 
disturb your hesitation by urging you on too rashly.
[Japanese]: You are more helpful to me in my attempt to say the 
word than you can know. (“DL” in OWL 27–28)
Further, although each distinction has a rubric for its topic—in this dialogue, the 
topic is the nature of language—in developing distinctions the aim is not to arrive at 
a correct verbal articulation of the rubric. On the contrary, the goal is to avoid such a 
resolution:
[Japanese]: We Japanese do not think it strange if a dialogue 
leaves undefined what is really intended, or even restores it 
back to the keeping of the undefinable.
[Inquirer]: That is part, I believe, of every dialogue that 
has turned out well between thinking beings. As if of its own 
accord, it can take care that that undefinable something not 
only does not slip away, but displays its gathering force ever 
more luminously in the course of the dialogue. (“DL” in OWL 13)
In this conversation, Heidegger and the Japanese scholar may be seen as 
enacting the methodology of The Forum: the dialogic development of distinctions 
through a process of hinting. Being cannot be verbalized. Being is in language, but 
it is not in the words that are spoken. It lives in the unspoken background, and in 
a conversation for Being, that background must be made present. Hints are an 
appropriate form for bringing a background to presence because they direct our 
attention toward something we had not noticed, something which they at the same 
time bring forward to meet us. 
Ontological hinting is not an easy form of communication to master, and by 
characterizing it here as an element of The Forum’s “methodology,” we have fallen 
prey to one of its pitfalls. When Heidegger says to the Japanese scholar that calling 
“
“


=== END OF PAGE 46 ===