=== PAGE 372 ===

358
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
What it means is, “Then fuck it!” So you’ve got to get, not only that it’s empty and meaningless, 
but also that it’s empty and meaningless that it’s empty and meaningless.
SALLY
Well, I want to do something with it...
ERHARD
I understand.
SALLY
But there’s nothing to do.
ERHARD
That’s right. There’s nothing to do. Anything you do ruins it. You want to make a prescription 
out of it, Sally. You want it to tell you what to do. And like I said yesterday, the truth never 
gives any prescription. And if you get any prescription out of the truth, you suck the truth value 
out of it. It becomes devoid of any truth value. All you can do with this is get it. It’s not worth 
anything; it’s worth nothing; it’s worthless: Because you can’t use it. It doesn’t help you to win; 
it doesn’t help you to avoid losing; it doesn’t help you to be right... see, if only it would tell you 
what to do with your life, then you would be happy. See, you would all be happy if we put on a 
presentation here, skillfully enough so that you actually believed that you knew what you were 
supposed to do with your life. So listen up. If we had a real scam ... and Wes and Kipp and I are 
smart enough to put one together—make a note—it’s maybe worth doing.
(laughter)
But I want you to listen. What would people say if you did The Forum and it left you knowing 
clearly what you were supposed to do with your life? People would really love that, wouldn’t 
they?
SALLY
It would be a lot easier to sign up.
ERHARD
Yeah, it would be a lot easier to sign up, and we could charge more. 
(laughter)
I want you to see how silly you are. If The Forum... You’d really have to believe it, wouldn’t 
you? Otherwise it would be bullshit. Suppose after The Forum was all over, you had no doubt—
none—it was crystal clear to you that you had found out what you were supposed to do with 
your life, really supposed to do. You would be very happy. Very happy. If you knew exactly 
what you were supposed to do, what you’re really supposed to do, you’d be real happy, because 
you’d have the answer. Julie?
Nothing: Beyond Nihilism
In An Introduction to Metaphysics, Heidegger points out that if 
the fundamental question of metaphysics were to be put simply 
as “Why are there beings?” then we would be starting from an 
assumption of the being’s is-ness, its givenness as a being. But, 
says Heidegger, with the addition of a second clause—“Why are 
there beings at all instead of nothing?”—the givenness of the 
being is thrown into question, and the being itself is held out “into 
the possibility of not-being,” and thus begins “to waver” (IM 31). 
Until we have confronted this possibility of non-Being, and have
thus opened ourselves to the other side of Being, we have not 
appropriated our true nature: “Da-sein means: being held out into
the nothing” (“WM” in BW 103).
W
The event of nihilation is an essential element of Being: 
“Being nihilates—as Being” (“LH” in BW 261). However, this 
W
statement should not be heard as justifying charges that 
Heidegger’s thinking is nihilism:
But where is the real nihilism at work? Where
one clings to current beings and believes it is 
enough to take beings, as before, just as the
beings that they are. But with this, one rejects
the question of Being and treats Being as a
nothing (nihil), which in a certain way it even 
“is,” insofar as it essentially unfolds. Merely to
chase aft er beings in the midst of the oblivion 
of Being—that is nihilism. . . . In contrast, to 
go expressly up to the limit of Nothing in the
question about Being, and to take Nothing into 
the question of Being—this is the first and only 
fruitful step toward the true overcoming of 
nihilism. (IM 226
M
)
“


=== END OF PAGE 372 ===