=== PAGE 513 ===

Forum Day Four: Session Three 499
BARRY
I’m a photographer.
ERHARD
Oh, I apologize: I forgot you were a photographer. I don’t want to know about taking pictures; 
I want to know where the photographic image occurs. So if you show me a photograph: Where 
does the image occur? It’s not on the paper.
BARRY
It’s the person who can recognize it there. 
ERHARD
Where does that recognition happen? 
BARRY
Through an association?
ERHARD
Not through association. The photographic image occurs in a medium called the possibility of 
a photographic image. Now, how long is it going to take you to get this? This is pretty simple. A 
photographic image occurs in a certain medium. The name of the medium is the possibility of 
a photographic image. To say it a bit more rigorously, a photographic image occurs in a medium 
called photographic image as a possibility. Photographic image as a presence, as an occurring, 
occurs, happens in a medium called photographic image as a possibility. Is that clear?
BARRY
No.
ERHARD
Then you’re going to have to go home without that being clear then. Sorry. It’s hard.
(Barry sits)
The medium of occurrence is possibility. Possibility shapes the occurring. What Ellen and 
I did was to shift the realm of possibility in which we were working. In one realm we were 
working on the possibility of catching the ball. That had a smaller possibility for Ellen. In the 
other realm we were working on the possibility of telling me which way the ball was spinning; 
that had a bigger possibility for Ellen. Hence, the ball traveling at the same is speed, alters 
its occurring speed, because occurring is a phenomenon which arises in a medium called 
possibility. Not possibility like you mean possibility, something that might, maybe could, 
maybe happen. Photographic image as a possibility is like—listen!—a clearing in which 
photographic images can happen. It’s not a maybe, might. It’s not made up of photographic 
images either. Photographic image as a possibility is not made up of photographic images, 
any more than “two” as a possibility is made up of examples of two. As a matter of fact, 
examples of two arise in the possibility “two.” So, access to your action, access to your feeling: 
Enframing
For Heidegger, our technological understanding of Being emerges 
in three stages: “challenging,” “standing-res erve,” and “enframing.”
Challenging
“The revealing that rules in modern technology,” Heidegger says 
first, “is a challenging (Herausfordern), which puts to nature the 
unreasonable demand that it supply energy which can be extracted 
and stored as such.” Thus the “earth now reveals itself as a coal 
mining district, the soil as a mineral deposit.” Heidegger protests 
this development as a significant change from the days of “the old 
windmill.” While the windmill served human beings, the call for its 
service was left  to the wind’s blowing, since “the windmill does not 
unlock energy from the air currents in order to store it.” Modern 
technology, on the other hand, “sets upon nature,” always driving 
on toward “the maximum yield at the minimum expense” (“QCT” 


=== END OF PAGE 513 ===