=== PAGE 548 ===

534
SPEAKING BEING
possible, I finally surrendered to it. My expectation was that I would be obliterated, 
leaving a smoking pile of rubble on the zafu (meditation cushion). Amazingly, how-
ever, the pain vanished, and was replaced by very intense sensations that had no 
pain valence, so long as I did not introduce any temporal distinctions, such as “This
has lasted so long. . . ” or “How many more minutes. . . .” Upon introducing such dis-
tinctions, the excruciating pain would return, only to abate when I dove ever more
deeply into it, embracing and experiencing each subtle and not so subtle aspect of 
it.  This was an astonishing discovery, which encouraged me to explore knee pain far 
earlier during a later ten-day meditation retreat in Barre, Massachusetts. By letting
the sensations show up just as they occurred instant-by-instant, without telling a
story about them or representing them in some other way, they showed up as they 
were rather than as how I had been representing them. By going ever more deeply 
into the source of pain, I eventually experienced the disappearance of self and even
space/time, leaving nothing at all, which I later interpreted as what Heidegger called 
the “clearing,” the no-thingness that allows all contents of awareness to reveal
themselves. Those contents can include the multiple stories we make up about 
what shows up, but I discovered the diff erence between the sheer showing up
(Being) of contents, on the one hand, and my representations/stories about them, 
on the other.
During the Zen sesshin, each of us had a nightly meeting with the Zen master,
a remarkable human being. I was typically a basket case when climbing the stairs
to his room, where he sat cross-legged. Usually, he just looked at me for a few 
moments—without saying a word—before ringing the dismissal bell. I hoped that 
the smile on his face was benevolent! Whatever shreds of self-assurance I may have 
had before climbing the steps—“Aft er all, a man is justified in being tired aft er such
rigorous meditation!”—were removed by his penetrating gaze. I had a long way to
go before I could ever be like him. Nevertheless, his extraordinary mode of Being 
showed me what is possible for a human being. I didn’t have to be this neurotic, 
self-absorbed, worried person.
In December 1981, I took the est Training in a suburb of New Orleans. Given 
t
the previous course of my life, which included writing about Heidegger’s concept
of authentic existence, practicing Zen meditation and hatha yoga, reading widely in 
Eastern and Western spiritual traditions, and above all still wallowing in ignorance, 
I was a prime candidate for what the Training had to off er. It allowed for the pos-
sibility of seeing that one’s “personality” is deeply tied up with one’s “racket,” the 
particular way in which one defends one’s identity by making oneself right and/or 
others wrong, or more generally, constantly justifying oneself. To experience being 
free from my racket, I first had to become aware of its structure (that is, the “payoff s”
and the gratification that seems to come from the payoff s of my racket, and on the 
other hand the “cost” of my rackets to the quality of my life), and second I had to
identify with it, to embrace it (make it my own). Paradoxically, this move was a nec-
essary condition for the next step, distinguishing myself from my racket. In doing so, 
a palpable sense of freedom spontaneously arose. What had been my subjectivity, 
my racket, now became a mere object in a wider awareness. 
As the Training progressed, I began to conclude that this wider awareness is an 
instance of what Heidegger had in mind by the “clearing,” the openness that consti-
tutes human existence. For Heidegger, authentic human existing means letting this 
clearing disclose entities as they are, rather than as how they show up through one’s
projections, stories, and self-justifying assertions. At one point, in reply to the Train-
er’s query about what we were beginning to realize, I raised my hand to say: “Who
we really are is no-thing! We are not things, not identities, not personalities, not 
emotions—we are the clearing in which all these can arise.” Even the distinction that 
we are no-thing, so I came to realize, arises within the clearing. As Heidegger would
put it, we don’t own the clearing; instead, the clearing “owns” us so that things can 
show up and thus “be.” I would later discover that while I was in that 1981 est Train-
ing, Werner Erhard was exploring some of the ways in which Heidegger’s thought 
overlapped with and could grant greater force to the ideas embodied in the Training.
Not long ago, when I was conversing with Erhard, he referred to this famous 
phrase from Heidegger’s essay “What Is Metaphysics?” (1929): We are “held out
into the nothing.”5 Erhard maintains that The Forum is designed to allow for this
experience, to be held out into the nothing, that is, into the emptiness and mean-
inglessness of existence. Without first-person experience of this emptiness, people
continue to cling to the subjective narratives that give rise to their rackets, as well as
other automatic instances of inauthenticity. Having become aware of their rackets
and their narrative-based identities, participants can notice the clearing—under-
stood not only as the open space needed for things to show up and thus “to be,” but 
also as the opening for a possible future in which things might be other than what
r
would otherwise be predictable; indeed, a possible future in which people at times
might make choices not dictated by their rackets. The
t
experience of being held out
into the nothing, into meaninglessness, is necessary for disclosing the ontological
event called the clearing.
In our conversation, Erhard aff irmed that his profound encounter with the empti-
ness and meaninglessness of his own identity did not lead—contrary to expectation—
to moral irresponsibility and nihilism. In fact, prior to that encounter, he had acted


=== END OF PAGE 548 ===