=== PAGE 119 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session One 
105
(Lisa shakes her head)
Clear?
LISA
Yes.
ERHARD
Anybody else not get this?
(another participant stands)
MASON
So you’re saying it’s never possible that it’s people in general? It could be one person?
ERHARD
There’s no such thing as “people” happening.
MASON
So it could be Frank doesn’t like me.
ERHARD
Yeah. “People don’t like me” is always a story, isn’t it?
MASON
I got that.
ERHARD
“People don’t like me” never happened. “Nobody liked me” never happened. Always a story,
right?
(to Marsha)
What happened?
MARSHA
What happened is, from Kindergarten through fourth grade was fun. In the fi fth grade girls 
were developing, noticing boys, but I was still in pigtails...
ERHARD
Hold on. You wanna start being able to be with people here. Whatever you were yesterday isn’t 
going to work today. You have to be powerfully with people. You’ve got to be up on the edge 
of your chair when this woman is giving you a gift you ain’t going to get again. You’re going to
Werner Erhard, who found in Heidegger’s vocabulary a way of 
expanding the value that his own work made available, discussed 
the nature of giving in a 1989 satellite telecast from New York City.
“
 A distinction gives. It comes into existence 
by giving. . . .  You’ve got to be able to think
something coming into existence in the act
of giving existence. Distinguishing arises in 
the act of giving—hard for us to think about
because we can only think serially. I’m ask-
ing you to think of a new kind of relationship 
called giving. . . . This is getting to the essence
of Being. There’s no such thing as Being. You 
can’t separate Being from the world, therefore 
there’s no such thing as Being. . . . Being arises
in the act of giving. (“Beyond the Winning 
Formula”)
Reflexive languaging demands that thinking bend back on itself.
Such languaging is inherent in thinking about Being; note how that
very phrase tickles the mind. 
While Heidegger’s writing is oft en considered to be highly
complex, he suggests an alternate view: “What is strange in the 
thinking of Being is its simplicity. Precisely this keeps us from it”
(“LH” in BW 263, emphasis added). Heidegger teases out this idea
W
further in his “Letter on Humanism.” At one point in the letter, 
when considering the role of language in Being, he calls attention
to a specific instance of its simplicity:
“
 But just now an example of the inconspicu-
ous deed of thinking manifested itself. For to
the extent that we expressly think the usage
“bring to language,” which was granted to
language, think only that and nothing fur-
ther, to the extent that we retain this thought
in the heedfulness of saying as what in the 
future continually has to be thought, we have 
brought something of the essential unfolding 
of Being itself to language. (“LH” in BW 263)


=== END OF PAGE 119 ===