=== PAGE 387 ===

Forum Day Four: Session One Interval 373
Heidegger is distinguishing a delicate balance—a way of relating to the world 
in which we neither impose ourselves upon, nor surrender to and lose ourselves in, 
beings. Rather, we withdraw somewhat, so that “they might reveal themselves with 
respect to what and how they are,” and so that we might find their truth in the event 
of their unconcealment (“OET” in BW 125). In aletheia, Being appears in undistorted 
emerging: “Considered in regard to the essence of truth, the essence of freedom 
manifests itself as exposure to the disclosedness of beings” (“OET” in BW 126). Ale-
theia, says Heidegger, is “Revealing as the order at the start” (EP 65).
We note here that Werner Erhard has consistently avoided truth claims for his work, 
emphasizing repeatedly that he does not know the truth. We propose, however, that 
an experience of the truth of Being is a fundamental element of The Forum (see the 
first sidebar in the next session, “The Three Levels of Truth”). It is hinted at through-
out the dialogue in the unspoken realm of the conversation, and culminates with 
the evocation of the Nothing; but perhaps its most pertinent articulation is Erhard’s 
distinction of integrity, which begins with this definition: integrity is “the state of be-
ing whole, complete, unbroken, unimpaired, sound, in perfect condition” (Erhard and 
Jensen, “Putting Integrity into Finance: A Purely Positive Approach” 6). 
This understanding of integrity is harmonic with phua, the root of the word 
physis, which according to Heidegger means “what one originally and authentically 
already is: that which essentially unfolds as having been, in contrast to the subse-
quently forced and enforced contrivances and fabrications” (IM 111). In the context 
of their fundamental orientation to Being, beings were seen by the pre-Socratics as 
originally true, a truth arising in the moment of their free emergence. Distortions of 
their truth were subsequent to their unconcealment. This sense of Being as what 
one originally and authentically is, we assert, is consistent with Erhard’s under-
standing of integrity, and the distinction of integrity is a fundamental element of the 
transformation that The Forum makes available. 
Logos: Primal Gathering
Emerging into the truth of unconcealment, physis is gathered in logos. According to 
Heidegger, just as the original power of the Greek term physis has been lost, so has 
the meaning of logos devolved over time. The traditional academic conception of 
this term is that it concerns discourse of some kind—generally reason, assertion, or 
logic. In Aristotle’s Rhetoric, for example, logos designated that category of evidence 
in which a speaker uses evidence conducive to a given audience’s ability to reason, 
making an argument persuasive to that audience. 
But these interpretations are later derivations, since the fundamental meaning 
of the term for the pre-Socratics had “no immediate relation to language” (IM 137). 
Instead, logos, as legein, a form of the verb lego, meant originally to lay, to gather or 
collect. Legein is to lay down, to lay before; logos signified the primal gathering principle. 
As beings emerged from the sway and into the world, embryonic in their mean-
ing, fragile in their truth, the task to be undertaken was to preserve them in their 
unconcealment and in their fundamental orientation to Being: “To be human,” writes 
Heidegger, “means to gather, to gather and apprehend the Being of beings” (IM 194). 
Naming is not something that follows the event of emergence. Rather, naming, as 
originary saying, allows “the Being of beings” to be “opened up in the structure of its 
gatheredness… Human beings, as those who stand and act in logos, in gathering, are 
the gatherers” (IM 191). How can we think this idea of humans as gatherers? As we 
read and listen, we gather letters to make words, gather words to make sentences, and 
gather ideas to make sense. As we go through our lives we gather the hours to make a 
day, and through time we gather days and years and events to make a life. In so doing, 
we order these phenomena—the events of our lives—arranging them in our under-
standing to create narratives, stories filled with meaning, that serve to leave us looking 
good and being right. Likewise, for the pre-Socratics, the gathering of logos brought 
order to the upsurge of the sway: “Being as logos is originary gathering, not a heap 
or a pile where everything counts just as much and just as little—and for this reason, 
rank and dominance belong to Being” (IM 147). In logos, phenomena were arrayed as 
a world, with differences, limits, and degrees of  importance. 
But for the Greeks, there was an element in the gathering that we today have 
difficulty comprehending: as “the originally gathering gatheredness that constantly 
holds sway in itself,” logos “is constant gathering, the gatheredness of beings that 
stands in itself, that is, Being” (IM 141, 145 emphasis added). The Greeks were not 
merely gathering beings into the world, but were struggling to do so in a way that 
retained each being’s origin: Being, the sway, the background in which it had been 
concealed and out of which it had emerged in unconcealment. 
Legein for the Greeks gathered the unconcealed into the world as it was 
unconcealed. Only in this way can logos as authentic speaking be possible. It is the 
letting-be of what is unconcealed in the open region of its unconcealment; and in 
distinguishing this fragile phenomenon, Heidegger employs (as he often does) lan-
guaging whose poetic character respects its fragility:


=== END OF PAGE 387 ===