=== PAGE 333 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
319
end of that exercise, you will be in touch with, you will have a deep insight into the profound 
indiff erence the universe has for your opinion. 
(laughter)
And then you can do something else with your life instead of fi guring out what you agree with 
and what you don’t agree with. That would give you a lot of time, because right now you are 
spending a lot of time fi guring out what you agree with and what you don’t agree with, and what 
you like and what you don’t like, and what you want and what you don’t want. Very important to 
know that the stars won’t move for your opinions. They will not move. They’ll move for some-
thing, but not for your opinion. And you’re pretty stuck with your opinion. You know, with what 
you think is right and what you think is wrong, and which way you think it ought to be done and 
which way you don’t think it ought to be done. You watch the stars carefully, like I said, you will 
have a profound insight into the awesome indiff erence with which the universe holds your opin-
ion. Then you can use your life for something else. The stars will move, but not for your opinion. 
Very good what you said. Thank you for letting me interrupt you. Please go on. 
JEB
It gave me an opportunity to observe myself doing it because it came in the context of empty 
and meaningless, and so I could retrace the steps. Like this: “Life is empty and meaningless. 
Okay I could see the value in that. It gives you the freedom you spoke of, all of those things. I 
can like that idea.” So what I saw happen was, I could incorporate that without challenging the 
structure of my life. I could make that something I like, give it that meaning without upsetting 
the way I do business. 
KIPP
You see what he’s saying? It can be absorbed into the conventional wisdom. It would be an 
extension of what you already knew. If you put this as an extension of what you already know, 
it will be more of what you already know. Very powerful what Jeb is saying. “Oh, yeah, I agree 
that it’s empty and meaningless. And of course, when I don’t agree with it, it won’t be.” See, you 
don’t have any wants. You are your wants. Somebody tries to take your wants away from you, 
you will act like they are trying to take you away from you. Yes?
WALKER 
I got that I am complete with my mother but not with my father. And I began to look at that 
and I saw that I thought that my father owed me something. Who I’d been being with my father 
was that he owed me something. I called him up during the meal break last night, and just 
apologized for being somebody who thought that he owed me something. And he said, “Well 
what is it you thought I owed you.” And I said that I couldn’t even think of it, but that I just 
wanted to apologize for that. He said: “apology accepted.” And that was that, and afterwards I 
began to see that the other side of that is that if who I’ve been being is that he owes me some-
thing... the other side of that is that I’ve been being someone who owes somebody something. I 
have something to complete with you, Werner. In 1974, I couldn’t say it then, but what I got was 
what my life could be about. Everything since then has been about how I could pay you back, 
The Uncanny
Approaching the final stages of writing this book, the authors
also were faced with another “end”: in January of 2015, Bruce 
Hyde, the senior author, was diagnosed with a recurring and
aggressive cancer. A new urgency emerged, as the very existence 
of our project was called into question. The “end” itself was 
addressing us, calling us, summoning forth a whole new clearing 
for partnership and activity, and in that clearing this book in its 
entirety emerged with the senior author free to complete the
remainder of the sidebars and intervals, doing so before he was
unable to participate any longer. 


=== END OF PAGE 333 ===