=== PAGE 288 ===

274
SPEAKING BEING
get out of the trap won’t work because the trap is constructed in such a way that the attempts to 
get out are the very bars of the trap. That’s what keeps you in the trap. You can’t get out if you 
try, and you can’t get out if you don’t try. You’ve got to be able to be in the trap. You know, you 
can’t write that. That’s oral. If you read it, it sounds like I said you’ve got to be able to be in the 
trap. No. I said you’ve got to be able to be in the trap. You’ve got to fi nd freedom in the ropes: 
full, total, absolute freedom in the ropes. You’ve got to fi nd freedom in your asshole-ness. Find 
freedom in the racket. Not avoiding the racket, not running the racket, not indulging yourself 
in the racket. “Okay, I’ll just do my racket.” That’s trapped. You’ve just surrendered to it, given 
up to the racket. Trying not to do your racket will just be a new racket, even if you succeed at it, 
which you probably won’t. Very, very rarely do people succeed at not doing their racket, and if 
you did succeed that would just be your new racket. Your new racket would be not doing your 
racket. Lots of people around here like that. They’re Enlightened. You’re the kind of people who 
fall in holes or get hit by busses. So, no in-order-to. It’s empty and meaningless. And it’s empty 
and meaningless that it’s empty and meaningless. It doesn’t mean anything that it doesn’t 
mean anything. It just doesn’t mean anything and it doesn’t mean anything that it doesn’t mean 
anything. And it isn’t going to work out. It isn’t going to work out because it already worked out. 
You think it’s going to work out someday. The right woman is not going to come along someday, 
the one who’s blonde and naked on a horse. You’re gonna be stuck with the one you got. You 
aren’t going to make it. There’s no making it. And you got plenty of evidence for that already. A 
lot of people in this room have a lot of making it already. There are no failures in here. We could 
go down the street and fi nd people whose lives are desperate due to their failures. Everyone 
in here is pretty successful in dealing with life. You’re pretty stupid, but you’re successful at 
dealing with life. We’ve made it this far despite our stupidity. Evidence that the stupid do make 
it... At any rate... So no cheating. You can’t cheat your way out of this. You’ve got to lose and 
then be able to be.
FRED
It looks like... I don’t know if that’s as far as I can take it. That’s what is. Like there’s no 
supporting, no stuff  around it.
ERHARD
Yeah. It’s called the existential moment of truth: naked and without any support. You’ve got to 
be able to be there. You’ve got to be able to be with nothing underneath you. You won’t make it. 
You won’t make it in The Forum. It’ll take years for you to get that. Fred and I have been working 
together a long time, pretty intensively. He’s a real good guy. It’s hard to tell when he talks about 
himself. You don’t get it all when you open it up. We’re opening it up in here. This is kindergarten. 
But it’s started. This is an experience over which you will never get. You’ll hear me talking for 
years. What you’ll never get over is knowing that you’ve got a choice. I know you don’t know 
what choice means yet, but you’ll never get over that. No matter how fucked up you get, that 
you’ll never get over. Still lots of work to do. And you’ll do it if you see it as a privilege to do that 
work.  If you can’t see what an extraordinary opportunity it is to do this work, then you ought 
to complete The Forum and get every ounce of value you can get out of it, and there’s plenty 
of value there to get, and you ought to go on your merry way. That’s a fair deal. You paid for it. 
You’re not obligated to do anything; you haven’t joined anything because there’s nothing to join. 
“ 
Giving up, surrendering to the trap: won’t
work. All that’ll do is leave you in the trap. 
Trying to get out of the trap won’t work 
because the trap is constructed in such a 
way that the attempts to get out are the 
very bars of the trap. That’s what keeps 
you in the trap. You can’t get out if you 
try, and you can’t get out if you don’t try. 
You’ve got to be able to be in the trap.
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 288 ===