=== PAGE 467 ===

Forum Day Four: Session Three 453
the boss. She was eleven years younger than me. That was a little harder. It took longer but I 
turned her into an authority fi gure. And if you’re over twenty I’ll do that to you.
(laughter)
Somehow I’ll make you boss. If you’re under twenty, I’ll have an edge for a little while. I didn’t 
see the cost; didn’t see the racket very plainly until this Forum. And I saw that I did it at my job. 
Also, I own a company. I’ve got three other partners, and one isn’t even an equal partner, he’s 
got ten percent of the company. Two are younger than I am and I’ve turned them all into my 
bosses. I made one into the president and I call him the boss. I’ll do that. You can count on that. 
KIPP
It’s a great way to avoid the responsibility of your own power.
VINNY
Exactly, not to be dominated by my own power, and the cost is everywhere. But the choice, to 
choose, the ability to choose that that’s that: That’s my racket. And to choose that—there’s a 
tremendous freedom in that, tremendous possibility to actually not have to be run by the racket. 
So thank you.
KIPP
Thank you!
MONTY (to laughter)
Thanks for calling on me, fi nally! It’s my fi rst share! I did the training in ’78 and I didn’t share, 
a couple of seminars and I didn’t share. And when we were dealing with that fear thing the 
other night, I couldn’t see my fear, but there was sadness. That was the feeling I got up. And I 
get a lot of tears, through you and through everybody’s stories. But I can’t contact my fear. I’m 
up to being scared shitless. That’s why I got up here to share; I always fi nd a way not to. And I’m 
standing and it’s okay. Fear runs me. That’s my major racket. It makes it possible for me to be 
invisible; it’s okay to be invisible and not count. Every mealtime I go through a panic, who am I 
going to eat with? Am I going to be alone? Can I just walk off  into the city and avoid being with 
anybody? Everyone’s been so generous to me. People gave me a ride back home. I’ve met more 
people here in these days than I’ve met and been with. 
(choking up)
I’m overwhelmed. I don’t know what this thing’s about, but the people in this room are 
available to me. 
KIPP
That’s what it’s about. 
MONTY
I’m really getting that. And I’m so pissed off  that I’ve let myself be run by this fear thing, that I have 
to be alone with no friends. It’s all horseshit. And so choosing that is kind of a challenge for me.


=== END OF PAGE 467 ===