=== PAGE 358 ===

344
SPEAKING BEING
BRADLEY
Me.
ERHARD
Did you get that?
BRADLEY
No, I’m still attaching meaning to it.
ERHARD
I’m not asking whether you are attaching meaning or not attaching meaning. You’re always 
going to attach meaning.
BRADLEY
I will?
ERHARD
You are a machine that attaches meaning. As long as you’re functioning you will attach mean-
ing. However, it’s possible to attach meaning in the context that it’s empty and meaningless. It’s 
possible to get that it’s empty and meaningless and attach meaning to it. See, this is not a con-
versation for convincing you of something. This is a conversation for leaving you dwelling in 
the truth. Dwelling in the truth, you can’t use the truth. So the question is, did you get—and by 
“get” I mean: “dwelling in” that it’s empty and meaningless? By “get” I mean: Are you “coming 
from” that it’s empty and meaningless? Not: Are you attaching meaning to things?
BRADLEY
Yes.
ERHARD
Then you are welcome to sit down.
(addressing Jacob, standing)
You didn’t get it, right? You got it partly and partly you didn’t get it? 
JACOB
Well I understand that, um, that a lot of times we try to take things for more than their face 
value, which is what happened, and add a stupid story to it and try to give it meaning. But I was 
wondering about your wording. When you say that it’s empty, is that where potential comes 
from, or possibility?
ERHARD
Is that where what?
primordial metaphor (see the sidebar “Primordial Metaphor” 
in the Second Session of Day Four)—or, in this case, the radical
undermining of meaning, since to bring Being (originative 
meaning) to language we must also bring nothing to language,
and not merely ontically: the ontological saying of the nothing is 
primal rhetoric. 
The second sense of “rhetoric” is closer to the Aristotelian 
tradition: that is, Heidegger, and especially Erhard, use the 
language of nothing strategically, exploiting its paradoxical
y
possibilities to reorient the audience by revealing to that audience
its true relation to nothing and thus to Being. ■


=== END OF PAGE 358 ===