=== PAGE 524 ===

510
SPEAKING BEING
CECILIA (continuing; breaking into tears)
What I can do now is go out and be with you all from my love for you all, rather than because I 
think I ought to.
ERHARD
Very nice.
(applause)
HENRY
I’m speaking and listening and it’s like the fi rst time. I’ve been stingy and this is the fi rst time 
that I’m not. I called my father and my mother. I told them that I loved them and they told me 
they loved me. I told them they were okay by me. My father said, “Well that’s interesting!” I 
asked him if I was okay by him and he said “Sure you’re okay by me.” My relationships with my 
mother and father are complete. I say so.
ERHARD
By the way: They are if you say so. Not like you want to say so. You’ve got to be free to say so. 
You can’t say so in-order-to. You’ve got to be standing where what you say is so. We’ll talk about 
that in a moment. Please go on.
HENRY
Everything that I’ve accomplished in my thirty-two years of my life is empty and meaningless. I’m 
okay with that. My life is perfect. What’s happened for me in the last several days is... I’m standing 
here trembling in awe and respect and gratitude for the incredible space of listening that you’ve 
created. I’m expressing myself for the fi rst time. The parts of The Forum that have been diffi  cult 
for me—I’m going through The Forum thinking I’m the only one going through this. But I’ve 
seen myself in everybody’s share and it hasn’t been diffi  cult or painful. It’s been great. I’ve gotten 
it: My back pain is gone, the stuff y nose is gone. I’ve got beyond the fi ve-year-old. I was that “I 
can’t remember beyond fi ve-years-old.” I don’t know whether I’m remembering what happened 
or remembering the story, but I’ve started to remember when I was very young. And what that 
frees up for me: I couldn’t own what was invisible to me. The racket, which came from incidents 
that were invisible to me and blocked out from me, kept coming up, and the incidents were so 
far back, way earlier than I’ve ever looked before. Even though I’ve done the training before, I’ve 
never experienced what I have now. I’ve always shared to look good, and now I’m sharing to 
contribute. I feel like the amount of time that people will listen to me is very short, and so I speak 
fast, cram it all in and nobody gets it. And I’m just worse off  afterwards. It was an in-order-to. 
ERHARD
Say what’s there instead of talking about it. I didn’t say, “say it fast,” I said “say what’s there.” 
You may have already said what you stood up to say, which is “I love you. And I respect you. 
And I acknowledge you.” If you’ve got something beyond that to say, say it. But get to the punch 
line. If you’re going to talk, do it eff ectively.
The Oblivion of Oblivion
As we stated earlier, Heidegger’s perspective on technology is an 
important element in the understanding of Werner Erhard’s work 
that we are developing here. Dreyfus finds a useful summary of 
this perspective in the response of HAL, the computer/robot in 


=== END OF PAGE 524 ===