=== PAGE 106 ===

92
SPEAKING BEING
about human beings. And I’m inviting you, like a possibility, to see your humanness in anybody 
speaking, and let something open up for you. So who can see an aspect of themselves in what
she just shared?
(many people raising their hands)
SIENNA
I’m also, when I’m in this place of knowing and acting that way, and not being willing to say I
know more than you do, that I’m very insulated about sharing with people, like yesterday, like I 
didn’t want to talk. And I felt very separated from everyone. I didn’t want to see as far as seeing
that my already listenings were similar to other people’s in the room, but I didn’t want to see that it
wasn’t even them and me. I always felt like those things were always kind of special, like the cho-
sen few and not just being human, like everybody. And that separates me, in a way that means that
I don’t share when I’m confused, and people don’t really know what’s going on with me. It’s like 
I’m missing all that. I’m both missing something about being related to people, and I also see how 
I’m stuck there, and that it is important, unless I want to stay here being stuck. I can’t have both.
WES
Thanks. Very useful. Look around the room. You should notice that in a Forum of about 500 
people, there are probably around 20 or 25 hands up. Hands down. Here’s something you want
to get off  of real quick. It’s called participating in The Forum. It’s called sharing in The Forum. 
The fi rst thing you should know is The Forum isn’t real. This is not real life. Now, we’re going to 
sit here for four days, kind of in this artifi cial environment. What’s the point? The point is what 
goes on after in your life. This is coaching for your life. But you’ve got to begin it here. And the
way you begin it here is to start participating, start sharing. It’s okay if you kind of mess it up a
little in here, you see, this isn’t real. But there’s something at stake in here. You have to confront 
what’s at stake for you in here. She just shared something that few people ever see about them-
selves, that their life is about knowing something so as to look good. And the few people who
get that ever, get that it’s killing their life. So here’s a woman who shared something that’s going
to open up her life. That’s what’s happening in The Forum. Are you willing to participate? Okay, 
who’s willing to participate?
(calling on fi ve people who stand)
PHOEBE
I was sure that with all these people putting their hands up I wouldn’t get picked. But I got picked.
WES
Yes. 
PHOEBE
It was safe to do what everyone else was doing. Also, part of my act for looking good is to be
very appropriate.
Being-in-the-World: Being-With
Werner Erhard emerged into public attention during a period char-
acterized by some as a decade of Narcissism, a period when the cul-
ture’s emphasis on self-understanding and personal empowerment 
led to the emergence of what has been called the “Me” generation.
As a result, Erhard’s work was sometimes tarred with that brush. 
For the authors of this book, however, a significant element 
of The Forum experience has been the atmosphere of aff inity and
connection with others that inevitably emerges among partic-
ipants as the course moves toward its conclusion. Certainly, 
individual empowerment is a significant element of the transfor-
mation that The Forum makes available. But this empowerment is
consistently accompanied by an experience of profound related-
ness to others, which then encourages a commitment to commu-
nity contribution. To use a metaphor oft en employed by Erhard, 
the individual empowerment and the sense of connection are as
symbiotic in their emergence as the front and back of a hand.
In Being and Time, Martin Heidegger locates the source of that
connection in the nature of Dasein’s Being-in-the-world.
As noted previously, Dasein, as the clearing for Being-in-
the-world, frees other beings to be the beings they are (see the
sidebar “Being-in-the-World: Being-in” in Session One of Day One, 
WES (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 106 ===