=== PAGE 518 ===

504
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD (indicating the “story” circle)
In this realm there are things like explanations.
(indicating the “what happened” circle)
And in this realm there are things like experience. So one is the experience and the other 
is the explanation of the experience. This was the whole story at the time we discussed this 
earlier. We were going backwards. We got to zero, we got to empty and meaningless. Now 
we’re seeing that there are two sides to The Forum. The fi rst side is “What is the already 
always being of human beings?” And the other side is “What is the possibility of being for 
human beings?” Now you heard “What is the possibility of being for human beings” as the 
something maybe, could I, might be, maybe, like some stupid image you got of yourself as 
thin and sexy and young and rich, or whatever your silly notion is for your self. Holy. It fi ts 
in there. The same crap.
(indicating the fi rst two circles) 
That’s what you got born with. That’s what came with the package—those two domains. There’s 
another domain. 
(drawing a new circle to the left of the “what happened” circle)
It doesn’t come with the package. You don’t get it for free. 
(indicating the “story” circle)
You can talk about that domain right here, but that’s talking about it. That’s like eating the 
menu. 
(indicating the third, still empty circle to the left of the “what happened” circle and of the “story” 
circle)
A lot of people talking about this domain.
(indicating the “what happened” circle)
You can even have experiences of it. People who merely have the experience of it get weird. Lot 
a weird people in this room, by the way. They gravitate to California. 
(laughter)
People with the experience of that other domain: Makes them weird. They can’t get over it, so they 
stay weird. They’ve got no mastery of the domain. They don’t dwell in the domain; they don’t come 
from the domain. They don’t dwell in it, but they’ve touched it experientially. Everybody in the room 
has had that experience. Everybody. Some of you haven’t had enough of that experience to be weird 
yet, that’s all. You know that experience where you don’t have to eat, where you don’t have to go to 
the bathroom, and you don’t have a home, and there’s nothing but what you’re doing. You’re not even 
there, right? It’s like when you get out of the way, and there’s that thing that happens when you’re out 
of the way? By the way, when do you come back? When it goes bad. Right away you’re right there: 
“Oh shit!” 
is the culmination, the gathering of the challenging-forth and 
ordering, the box in which human beings as resources already 
find themselves at this juncture in our history. To employ the 
vernacular, the technological way of Being is a done deal: “The 
actual threat has already aff licted man in his essence. . . . Thus the 
question as to how we are to arrive at a relationship to the essence 
of technology, asked in this way, always comes too late” (“QCT” in 
BW 333, 329). In a 1966 interview with the German newsmagazine 
Der Spiegel, asked what was missing in the world when, aft er all, 
everything seemed to be functioning and production was at a 
peak, Heidegger replied: “Everything is functioning. This is exactly 
what is so uncanny, that everything is functioning and that the 
functioning drives us more and more to even further functioning, 
and that technology tears men loose from the earth and uproots 
them” (in Zimmerman’s Heidegger’s Confrontation with Modernity 
199, emphasis added). Thus uprooted, says Dreyfus, human 
beings “become a resource to be used, and more importantly to be 
enhanced, just like any other resource” (“Gaining”).
And yet, it is Erhard’s technology of transformation that brings 
forth its participants to arrive at such a relationship to the essence 
of technology, right in the midst of being torn loose from the earth, 
used and enhanced as any resource would be, caught up in the 
relentless logic of the in-order-to. Rather than turn away from the 
technological way of being we are thrown to be, the inquiry of The 
Forum directs its participants to come face-to-face with it, to own 
up to it, to be in the trap that it is for human being. ■


=== END OF PAGE 518 ===