=== PAGE 412 ===

398
SPEAKING BEING
I’ll just keep lying to people so that they keep giving me grant money. I don’t care.” But no, that’s not
your relationship to your thesis, but it could be. You wouldn’t have a problem: You’d have a scam. 
(laughter)r
What turns it into a problem is “it shouldn’t be.” “I should be doing this thing and I’m not 
getting it done.” “Not getting it done” shouldn’t be. The box that problems occur in is “shouldn’t 
be.” It’s kind of obvious, right?
NICOLE
Yeah.
WES
You’re waiting for the heavens to part. They’re not going to part; you just may get a powerful 
and profound insight that may let you get your damn thesis done.
NICOLE
True.
WES
Can you see that the occurrence “not getting thesis done” occurs “shouldn’t be”? That whole 
thing?
NICOLE
Yeah.
WES
Great. And where does “shouldn’t be” occur? Does “shouldn’t be” occur in the thesis?
NICOLE
No.
WES
Does “shouldn’t be” occur in the ceiling?
NICOLE
No.
WES
No. “Shouldn’t be” occurs where?
(Nicole points to her mouth)
Very good Nicole. Thanks.
Giambattista Vico. Like Martin Heidegger, Vico perceived a lost power 
in the thinking of the ancients. His interest in the thinking of the 
“first men,” those who shaped the early use of language, anticipated 
Heidegger’s persistent attempt to reconstruct the understanding of 
the pre-Socratic Greek thinkers. Like Heidegger, Vico understood that 
he was entering shadowy territory: it is beyond our power, he said, 
“to enter into the vast imagination of those first men, whose minds 
were not in the least abstract, refined, or spiritualized, because they 
were entirely immersed in the senses, buff eted by the passions, 
buried in the body” (The New Science 118). 
But his exploration of this realm led him to develop a theory 
of primordial metaphor that resonates with Heidegger’s distinc-
r
tion of originary naming. Metaphor, for Vico, was based in identity
rather than similarity (James M. Edie, Speaking and Meaning: The
Phenomenology of Language 166). It was a theory of first thought;
according to the scholar Donald Phillip Verene, Vico proposed that 
the mind’s cardinal act was “a transference or bearing of meaning 
from sensation as placeless, momentary flux to the fixation of sen-
sation as a god.” Thus, through metaphor, the beings were brought 
into Being. Says Verene: “Metaphor can be understood as likeness 
or similarity only if we ignore its role in relation to the is. To regard 
the constructive power of metaphor as based on its analogical
capacity is also to presuppose its primordial power to construct 
the is” (Vico’s Science of Imagination 174).
There was, then, a moment at the dawn of time when hu-
mans brought forth beings through the creation of metaphors. On 
this view, whether we recognize it or not, we are already always 
thinking and speaking from within the metaphors that have 
been constructed and then passed down in our tradition, meta-
phors that generate assumptions about what is possible in being 
human. The philosopher Richard Rorty has proposed that what 
we should be doing as thinking beings is using up the metaphors 
that we have inherited, and creating new ones. Not to do so, says 
Rorty, is to worship the dead metaphors of our ancestors (Contin-
gency, Irony, and Solidarity 20). The work of Martin Heidegger and 
Werner Erhard may be seen as the creation of new metaphors.
An important Heideggerian metaphor that Erhard has adapted 
for use in his own work is the term clearing. “Clearing” is a metaphor 
WES (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 412 ===