=== PAGE 253 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 239
JACOB
I want to change it. I know this sounds sappy...
KIPP
Not sappy. Just disempowering. You’re the kind of guy that’s going to make no diff erence 
because you’re going to try to change Ethiopia. Where is the world imperfect?
JACOB
There’s two kinds of perfect. There’s what you strive for, which we are neglecting here, and 
then there is what already is. 
WES (standing on the platform)
Let’s deal with your life fi rst. You haven’t seen what you look like. 
JACOB
Yeah.
WES
You’re talking to Kipp like someone who hasn’t seen what a human being looks like who 
follows what you’re talking about. You’re proposing a way of being and you haven’t seen how 
absurd it is. When you see how absurd it is you’ll give it up in a minute: The absurdity of the 
story that uses people’s lives. 
JACOB
Yeah, I was going to say that there’s what happened, and then there’s the story. It makes life 
interesting.
WES
What makes life interesting? Certainly not your story. You know what you’re story looks like?
JACOB
Yeah, violins playing in the background.
WES
Yeah, good. 
JACOB
But it’s still interesting to me.
WES
No it isn’t. It stinks. There’s no possibility. This is what you look like. I’m going to demonstrate 
you.
Our experience with the work of Werner Erhard has led us to the 
recognition that a transformational leap must pass through the 
domain of meaninglessness, and that an experience of Being 
requires a confrontation with non-Being. We will therefore endure 
(or enjoy) any silliness we encounter, and recognize that we are 
mining one of the richest veins of Heidegger’s thought—perhaps 
his most essentially reflexive distinction, sometimes his most 
perplexing, but inevitably a ride we want to be along for.
A core rubric for this distinction is the Same; and since a distinction 
can only be hinted at, Heidegger approaches this one throughout his 
writing from various directions. In the 1941 lecture series published as 
Basic Concepts, it emerges in a section concerning Being’s uniqueness, 
and its diff erence in that respect from beings:
Beings can always be compared with beings 
and placed into equivalence with one another. 
However, [B]eing is never merely what is equiv-
alent in the manifold beings stone, plant, ani-
mal, man, God. For to be what is equivalent it 
would have to be multiple. Being, by contrast is 
everywhere the same, namely, itself. In order to
be equivalent, something other and additional 
is required. To be the same, only uniqueness is 
needed. (BC 44)
“
Heidegger’s languaging in such writing trips up our thinking. It 
forces us to stop and double back, to be certain that what we 
understood was what was said. It pulls the rug from under us. 
Heidegger’s next sentence gives a final yank to a rug already 
well-pulled: 
As the same and unique, [B]eing is, of course,
forever diff erent in and from itself. (BC 44)
“
Thinking and Being
In the 1954 collection of essays entitled Early Greek Thinking,
Heidegger develops the distinction “the Same” in his exploration 
of two fragments by Parmenides. A central question for 


=== END OF PAGE 253 ===