=== PAGE 17 ===

 
Introduction
3
with limited bathroom breaks, a highly confrontational interaction style—with
the use of expletives—and the surrender of all wristwatches at the door. These
demands were modified when The Forum replaced the Training; and in subsequent 
years, as the communication paradigm of the culture has continued to shift, the 
delivery of The Forum has altered accordingly.
On the one hand, of course, The Forum conversation inevitably challenges 
participants’ familiar way of seeing things. Ontological inquiry—pedagogy such as 
The Forum, that aims to get beyond mere conceptual knowledge—is of necessity 
rigorous and sometimes uncomfortable. In Martin Heidegger’s words, authentic in-
quiry into Being always “has the character of doing violence, whether to the claims 
of the everyday interpretation, or to its complacency and tranquillized obviousness”
(BT 359). But while the conversation in the current Landmark Forum remains rigor-
T
ous, participants will find a presentation that can for the most part be described as 
gentler, and more user-friendly, than the one presented in this book. 
A further aspect of this difference, of course, has to do with Werner Erhard’s
personal style. In his delivery of both the Training and The Forum, Erhard’s com-
munication was edgily playful and relentlessly purposive. He called his approach
ruthless compassion; and it included a profound sense of humor and Socratic 
irony implicit in the human condition. To communicate the humor as well as the 
compassion, he often provoked and insulted participants, using language gener-
ally considered inappropriate for such a setting (in a parody of one of his favorite 
epithets, graduates of the Training were sometimes referred to as “estholes”). Yet, as 
this book shows, those participants who initially resisted these intrusions inevitably
got the message. Erhard has related this confrontive aspect of his communication
to his 1971 experience of transformation: “On the bridge,” he said, “all of a sudden I 
could be 100% responsible for everything in my life, and at the same time none of it 
had any significance. At that point you are free and fearless” (Erhard, interview with 
authors). Erhard’s communication style, and his humor, remain on full display in this 
book; the authors see them as important and entertaining aspects of the historical 
account we are presenting here.
Erhard Encounters Heidegger
Despite the shift we have cited here in The Forum’s style and tone, a central thesis
of this book is that from the first offering of the est Training in 1971, through its
t
replacement by the Forum in 1985 and its current iteration as the Landmark Forum, 
the process at the heart of this pedagogy has retained its transformational
dynamic. This dynamic, as we will show, arises in the unspoken ontological realm
of The Forum conversation as it proceeds, and has been the essential element of the 
course through all of its terminological variations. 
During the transition to The Forum, Erhard excised many of the est Training’s 
t
more meditative exercises and incorporated into the course a new vocabulary and
redesigned procedures, with the stated intention that participants would have an 
enhanced experience of creating a new realm of possibility for themselves and their 
y
lives. At about this time, through colleagues, he was introduced to the work of the
twentieth-century German philosopher Martin Heidegger. Erhard was taken with the 
way Heidegger’s thinking reverberated with his own, and he consulted with several 
Heideggerian scholars on the subject. Two of them—Hubert Dreyfus of University of 
California, Berkeley and Michael E. Zimmerman of Tulane—provided formal assess-
ments of the est Training’s effectiveness, and noted its consistencies with elements 
t
of Heidegger’s thought. When Erhard’s revised technology emerged in The Forum
and other redesigned courses, significant Heideggerian terminology was included 
in its rhetorical mix, and Erhard occasionally read passages from Heidegger in his
presentations.
Most significantly, Erhard saw that Heidegger’s ideas and his own were commu-
nicating from the same unspoken realm, and that the specifications of the two vo-
cabularies could be merged to communicate that realm more powerfully: “I learned
from Heidegger,” said Erhard, “nuances of what I had been saying that clarified and
made more potent what was there” (Erhard, interview with authors). 
What was there was Erhard’s technology of language for the communication of 
being, and its ability, in both the Training and The Forum, to consistently and pow-
erfully evoke an experience that participants found transformative. The evocation
of that experience has remained The Forum’s essential element; Erhard’s encounter 
with Heidegger enriched the vocabulary in which he could see into it more pro-
foundly and communicate it more effectively. 
Technology
The form of this study will be comparative analysis: we will demonstrate that the 
work of Werner Erhard is aligned in significant ways with the philosophy of Martin
Heidegger, and that a comparison of their work illuminates the thinking of both
men. We will show that The Forum’s dialogic form introduces a performative dimen-
sion of Heidegger’s ontological vocabulary in a way that Heidegger himself, working 
within a restrictive academic and political culture, was unable to do. We propose 
that The Forum conversation is ontological rhetoric: purposive speaking that com-
municates and makes present a context of meaning that, if left unexamined, shapes 


=== END OF PAGE 17 ===