=== PAGE 362 ===

348
SPEAKING BEING
DENNIS
That’s correct.
ERHARD
And getting it is to get that there is no signifi cance. So there can’t be any signifi cance in getting 
it. You want to know where you’ve got your foot nailed to the fl oor? When you were younger 
somebody told you some bullshit about what it was to get it. What were you told when you were 
young about what it was to be enlightened, to get it?
DENNIS
I was brought up believing that one should be successful and make things happen for yourself, 
to be in control. 
ERHARD
Yeah, and you know that was the product of the culture in which you were brought up, and 
family in which you were brought up, and the time of history in which you were brought up. 
And you know, there are cultures in which success is looked down upon, in which you have to 
hide your success. You know that, right? 
DENNIS
Sure.
ERHARD
Sure. So what’s the signifi cance of that? I mean, which is right? Which is the right way to 
go? Is the right way to go and devote your life to success, or to devote your life to something 
else? Which is the right way to go? Do you see that the question is insane? You go the way you 
go. The question whether it is right or wrong is irrelevant, stupid, is stupefying. Look at how 
stupid it made you. That was not an insult. It was just a report. Look at the stupidity that you’ve 
revealed in your own lives. You know, the “at the heart of it” stupidity. Yeah there’s nothing 
wrong with being oriented around and regarding being successful or accomplishment highly.
DENNIS
Yeah but, I feel like... I don’t consider myself overly successful, but somewhat successful, like 
you said...
ERHARD
Here’s how successful you are. I’ve seen your bank account: You’re as successful as you are. 
That’s how successful you are and it’ll probably remain like that. No matter how much you 
accomplish, you will only be as successful as you are, and you will not be as successful as you 
aren’t. And that’s the way it’s going to be for the rest of your life. Right? It’s like “who’s buried 
in Grant’s tomb?” 


=== END OF PAGE 362 ===