=== PAGE 347 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
333
got, maybe, the terror there. And the terror was there. I couldn’t get out of it. I have a beautiful 
concept of it. And I can tell you metaphors about it, but it was there. I got up this morning, and 
it’s like... my son came in and he sits down on the bed. He said “Mom, tell me about this thing 
you’re doing.” Before I tell you that, let me tell you a little bit about my son. He spent fi ve years 
in a mental hospital. He’s thirteen now. And I said “Well, we’re talking about how we are as 
human beings. And we’ve been talking about how we have these things that exist for us from 
when we were really little, and he said “You mean those things we know from the time we 
were born?” Shit. 
(laughter)
So I say “Yeah.” So anyway, and we go on and we’re talking, and he’s following me, and I say 
“Yeah, I’ve been looking at the way I am, and this thing I’ve got about being an incompetent 
parent, and the terror I have with it. And he says, “Mom, you’re an incompetent parent,” and 
then he laughed—
(she demonstrates the laughter)
“Mom, we’re related!”
(applause)
And I’m blown away, laughing and crying at the same time, really, and he’s standing there and 
says “Mom, I don’t understand you’re laughing and crying, but don’t look, I’m crying.” It was 
like... Later on in the morning he was sitting on the bed and terrorizing the cat. So I says “now 
what would you do if somebody came in and was terrorizing the cat the way you’re terrorizing 
the cat?” “Well I would shoot ’em.” And I said, “I just don’t know what to do about it.” And he 
says “well you’re an incompetent parent!”
(laughter)
I said “I got it. If I were terrorizing the cat, what would you do?” And he said “I’d tell you to 
stop it.” And I said “Well, stop terrorizing the cat.” And he did. 
KIPP
A lot of work.
SARAH
Yeah.
KIPP
It’s been this drama. And this tragedy, and how to work it out, and what to do...
SARAH
“How do I do it to you to make you stop terrorizing the cat?”
KIPP
Yeah, building a strategy and looking for the options.
inauthenticity” (BT 312). Such a life may be easy, interesting, and
T
pleasant; but it is never one’s own.
And yet: since this is the only mode of existence we have
experienced, how could we know that any other mode is
available? What is needed is a hint, a prod, a direction: “In terms 
of its possibility,” says Heidegger, “Dasein
y
is already a potentiality-
for-Being-its-Self, but it needs to have this possibility attested” 
(BT 313, emphasis added). For this purpose, we are introduced
T
here to an old friend whom we have undoubtedly encountered 
before:
[Because] Dasein is lost in the “they,” it must
first find itself. In order to find itself at all, 
it must be ‘shown’ to itself in its possible 
authenticity. . . .this potentiality [-for-Being-
its-Self] is attested by that which, in Dasein’s 
everyday interpretation of itself, is familiar 
to us as the “voice of conscience” [Stimme des
Gewissens]. (BT 313
T
)
“
But precisely because the conscience is such a familiar 
element of our moral/psychological/theological mythology—one 
that has been assessed, disputed, and interpreted in manifold
ways—it is likely to occur here as a tired concept reduced to
ambiguity in the idle talk of the “they.” So Heidegger emphasizes 
that he is positing the voice of conscience as an existential
phenomenon. That is, like our attunements, which cannot be
ascertained without being inhabited, the voice of conscience
is there, waiting to happen, and so is only heard when Dasein, 
attuned in anxiety, wants a conscience. Thus, it is never factual, 
only factical.
As a phenomenon of Dasein, conscience is not
just a fact which occurs and is occasionally 
present-at-hand. It ‘is’ only in Dasein’s kind of 
Being, and makes itself known as a Fact only 
with factical existence and in it. (BT 313
T
)
“


=== END OF PAGE 347 ===