=== PAGE 222 ===

208
SPEAKING BEING
meta ta phusika, which indicates a realm over beyond what naturally is. In the 
metaphysical understanding of things that has developed in the West, Being has 
been severed from its original relationship with beings, and has been relegated to 
the over beyond, a loft y transcendental realm to which access is mysterious and, for 
contemporary thinking, no longer even desirable. For the most part, human beings 
are unaware that anything is missing. For us, says Heidegger, the “word ‘Being’ is 
then finally just an empty word. It means nothing actual, tangible, real. Its meaning 
is an unreal vapor” (IM 39–40). 
From the inception of his work, Werner Erhard has engaged the public by 
calling attention to this absence of Being, as in this 1982 presentation that he 
delivered to some 20,000 people in audiences in nine cities: 
“
and reality. I say that you and I live inside that gap, that there’s 
a chasm, a gap, between what you and I expect of life and what 
life really is. . . . I’m not talking about the gap between your 
dreams and reality. I’m talking about the gap between what you 
and I have a right to expect from life, and what we actually get 
from life. See, you and I have a right to expect our relationships 
to be deeply nurturing and really fulfilling, and for the most 
part they’re not. . . . You and I have a right, when we go to work 
for an organization, when we move from an individual expres-
sion to an organizational expression, we have a right to expect 
our aff iliation with that organization to empower us, to make an 
even bigger contribution than we could do as an individual. . . . 
You know, we’ve got a right to expect certain things from the 
government, and we don’t get it. Not fantasies. We have a right 
to expect certain things from the practice of our religion, and 
for the most part people don’t get it—what they have a right 
to expect. And it’s all over the place. There is a gap. And it’s a 
no-kidding gap. Something is missing. . . . And what [we—as the 
they-self—are] providing is not allowing it to show up. (“Taking 
a Stand for the Future”)
In responding to Being’s departure, both Heidegger and Erhard have focused their 
eff orts on the design of a new language. Heidegger’s most frequently quoted claim 
is that language is the house of Being (“LH” in BW 217). “In the word, in language,” 
he said, “things first come to be and are” (IM 15). That is, the language of one’s time 
SESSION TWO INTERVAL
The Forge tting of Being, Part Four of Eight: The Pre-Socratics
Martin Heidegger’s purpose as a philosopher was to think a way back to the 
greatness which was promised at the beginning of Western history, but which has 
remained unrealized due to the metaphysical tradition that has dominated human 
understanding. 
Historically, the term metaphysics has referred to the branch of philosophy that 
dealt with questions about the nature of things, about ultimate causes and that 
which does not change—questions, that is, about the nature of Being. This area 
of philosophical inquiry is now generally designated as ontology. In the normal 
course of events, most people, aside from academics and theologians, give little 
or no thought to the subjects of metaphysics and ontology, or even to Being. But 
Heidegger proposes that whether or not we are aware of it, the metaphysical 
tradition is deeply embedded in the way we understand the world. In our everyday 
lives, he says, this metaphysical understanding constrains our ability to be. 
We remind the reader again as we begin this Interval that we are engaged in 
an inquiry into something that is not something—that is, it does not fall within 
the range of phenomena that are readily available for us to think about. In his 
writing, Heidegger was persistent in his eff orts to indicate this mysterious aspect; 
for example, in the text of one of his later books (The Event) the word “Being” was 
repeatedly printed with a strikethrough. Here, the authors suggest that whenever 
the word “Being” (in its capitalized form) occurs in our writing, it might usefully be 
thought of as accompanied by a parenthetical question mark. 
From the beginning of his career, Martin Heidegger’s work as a philosopher 
was driven by the question of the human relationship to this mystery. According 
to Hubert Dreyfus, a scholar with whom Werner Erhard consulted while creating 
The Forum, Heidegger at some point had an experience of Being similar to the one 
elicited by Erhard’s work, and he “struggled all his life to find an adequate language 
to express it without falling, as he put it, into the ruts of metaphysics” (Assessment 2). 
Over the years, his articulation of the being/Being relationship evolved significantly, 
but his single-minded commitment to the question never wavered. At the heart 
of the inquiry was his sense that modern human beings are out of touch with this 
aspect of existence. It is as if, as Western culture has developed, Being has fled, 
and a critical element of human experience has been lost. 
The “ruts of metaphysics” mark the road Western thinking has traveled during 
the millennia since the time of Plato. The word itself is derived from the Greek 


=== END OF PAGE 222 ===