=== PAGE 391 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
377
KIPP
You mean you’re not taking notes, so far.
PRESTON
I made a few notes in pen on my wrist when I just couldn’t bear it.
(laughter)r
KIPP
Really? You made notes on your wrist? Really?
PRESTON
And then I go out on the break and wash it very carefully. 
(laughter)r
It was a little bit like smoking dope as a kid in the bathroom, where you have to clear it out with
the spray, but everybody knows you can’t make such a sweet smell when you’re taking a shit. 
(laughter)r
But I’m here to keep my promises and I haven’t been taking notes. And I realize this is what 
I’ve been running in my life up until now. One of the elements of structure here is how I’ve 
survived, totally by taking notes: I have notebooks; I have reference books in my notebooks, but
I probably can’t fi nd them because I haven’t labeled them properly. So I noticed in a passing
thought that I’ve kept all these notes but I can’t access any of them very well. That’s not story,
that’s a fact. So I have given up what has kept me afl oat. And by yesterday I was willing to do it.
I’ve only made one note, just three words, which I washed off  before looking at it.
(laughter)r
And from what Werner said this morning, that is my apology. So I’ve been looking at what I 
haven’t been able to keep myself in, now that I haven’t got any notes, and feeling that some-
thing is—there is a piece that hasn’t been coming together for me yet, like many others here.
I was able to get my fi nger on the piece because I wasn’t taking notes about it. And the piece
was “boxes,” and I was helped by one of the people on staff  who said to me after the last session, 
“Structure is a great supporter of promises.” When you have structure, it helps you to stay on 
purpose with your promise. I began to see that the boxes are where you apply structure, where 
I apply structure. I went out and had a look at my life and looked at the cracks in the pavement, 
because that’s my way, and I saw a sign over a parking lot that said “validation.” It winks on 
twice and then goes black. I wondered how far the energy of this room extends?
(laughter)r
I realized that the stronger my stand in emptiness and absence of meaning; the stronger my 
stand in that place, the more I’ll be able to utilize structure. 
The Three Levels of Truth
Martin Heidegger’s purpose as a philosopher was to bring the truth 
of Being to presence in the human experience.  It is diff icult to 
imagine just what that would look like, or what it might make pos-
sible, since it has for the most part been missing for us; and when it
has shown up, it has not stuck around for long. Why?


=== END OF PAGE 391 ===