=== PAGE 404 ===

390
SPEAKING BEING
lives, how they get stuck in their lives, and a way of shifting that. The fundamental place where
people get stuck is in their problems. You know the problems you have in life? You can have a 
breakthrough in the matter of your problems. Parts of the conversation will be fairly abstract.
You want to give up your considerations about abstractions. To get a sense of what your prob-
lems are, look at places in your life where you are stuck. You’ll notice that that’s a place you 
never would in a million years fi nd it possible to participate. There’s a real problem there. Get
up some of your real problems for yourself. What are some synonyms for problems? Looking at 
a real problem in life?
Participants shouted out various answers: diffi  culty, stopped, upset, stuck, barrier, worries, suff ering, 
concerns, burden, hassle.
WES
Fundamentally what a problem is, is something is stopped: Something is stuck. The way in
which you are dealing with it is: There is a stuckness. There’s not movement. When you’re
moving, you’re not stuck. You may be dealing with something. It may be diffi  cult to deal with 
but it doesn’t occur as a problem. Problems are places you are ineff ective. And you are ineff ec-
tive, obviously, because of circumstances, reasons, situations, and so forth. The fi rst thing to 
look at is where problems occur. You can’t be eff ective with something if you don’t know its 
location. So if I try to move the chair and I think the chair is here...
(indicating a location on the stage in which there is not a chair)r
...the chair’s not going to be moved. So we have to get where problems occur. A problem 
seems to occur in the world, doesn’t it? Think of your problems: Somehow the problem is out 
there. And that’s what makes it so diffi  cult to deal with: It’s out of your control. And out there
where it lives is very big. And fundamentally that’s the thing that makes people ineff ective
with problems, because problems don’t occur out there. There are no problems, as problems, 
out there. “I’ve got cancer. It’s in my body.” The cancer may be in your body, but the problem
you’ve got with the cancer isn’t in your body. “My car is a piece of crap. That’s a real problem
for me.” There’s no problem with your car. The cancer as a problem, your car as a problem, your 
children as a problem, are not out there. Problems don’t occur in the world as problems. Rocks
don’t have problems, even the ones that get kicked and fall down the hill. That is not a problem 
for the rock. See if you can point at where problems are. Take a shot. 
(indicating his mouth)
I didn’t say there are no problems. There are problems. They just don’t occur out there. They occur 
over here. They are in your speaking and your listening. Or more rigorously, problems are in lan-
guaging. No languaging, no problems. The home of problems is languaging. The home of reality,
for life for human beings, is in languaging. The occurrence “problems” occurs in languaging. 
Rocks don’t speak and listen, and so don’t have the problems human beings have as problems.
PAULA
Is languaging and distinguishing the same thing? What about signing?
WES (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 404 ===