=== PAGE 546 ===

532
SPEAKING BEING
AFTERWORD
WERNER ERHARD, 
MARTIN HEIDEGGER, A N D 
THE POLITICS OF BEING
By Michael E. Zimmerman
Michael E. Zimmerman was a philosophy professor at Tulane University and the University of 
Colorado at Boulder before retiring in 2015. Author of four books, and more than a hundred
articles and book chapters, Zimmerman’s research interests include environmental philosophy, 
Heidegger, Nietzsche, Buddhism, and integral theory. His books include Eclipse of the Self (1981),
Heidegger’s Confrontation with Modernity (1990),
y
Contesting Earth’s Future (1994), and Integral 
Ecology (2009).
y
Reading Bruce Hyde and Drew Kopp’s insightful book, Speaking Being, has been a
remarkable journey, one that brings me back to the transformation I experienced 
when I took The est Training in December 1981. During the Training, I discovered a
t
profound and wholly unanticipated connection between the work of Werner Erhard 
and that of Martin Heidegger. In spring 1982, I would find myself writing a philo-
sophical appraisal of the Training at Erhard’s request. This appraisal and related 
conversations were two of many factors that eventuated in The Forum, which rolled
out in 1985.
Erhard developed the key elements of what would become The Forum (and
later, The Landmark Forum) long before he knew anything about Heidegger. The 
point of Speaking Being is not to show that Erhard’s ideas derive from Heidegger’s,
but rather that there is a remarkable aff inity between ideas that the two thinkers 
arrived at independently. The first question I will explore at length is this: Do the 
remarkable parallels between the work of Erhard and Heidegger confirm the validity
of their respective findings?
Some autobiographical comments will help to contextualize my answer. Al-
though I eventually wrote two books and dozens of scholarly articles about Heide-
gger’s philosophy, my first encounter with it was an abject failure. In spring 1968, 
as a senior philosophy major in college, I took a seminar on Being and Time (1927),
Heidegger’s most important work. I was feeling confident because the previous 
semester I had apparently managed to make a little sense of Alfred North White-
head’s Process and Reality (1927), a notoriously diff icult text. The title of Heidegger’s
y
book attracted me, as did its cover, with large white letters standing against a black 
background. The seminar was over my head, although I was hardly alone in my 
confusion. Little secondary literature in English was available on Being and Time,
which had been translated only a few years earlier. Aft er struggling to about page
180, I realized that I had understood nothing about what was going on—especially 
not how important “nothing” was to prove in Being and Time. 
As a graduate student at Tulane University, I gave Being and Time another try,
this time in a seminar taught by Edward G. Ballard, who later became my disser-
tation director. In that seminar, I began to chip away at Heidegger’s conceptual 
massif. Later, as a Fulbright-Hays Fellow in Belgium in 1972–73, I worked on my PhD
f
dissertation, “The Concept of the Self in Heidegger’s Being and Time.” Ballard was
enamored of Plato’s thinking because it combined philosophical depth with the pos-
sibility of transformation for the one who engages wholeheartedly with the Platonic
dialectic. Such a transformation, so Ballard maintained, is necessary to understand 
what Plato was pointing at.


=== END OF PAGE 546 ===