=== PAGE 218 ===

204
SPEAKING BEING
Wes continued taking shares about fear, and unconcealing the fear underneath participants’ 
fundamental points of view. 
WES
Human beings put “bad” around fear. You can’t experience what we called “bad.” But it’s always 
there. You’re born into fear. If you don’t believe me, read the newspapers. Newspapers trade on 
fear.
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 6)
I’ve never been present to as much fear as I’m present to right now. I’m afraid if I share myself 
you’ll fi nd out how bankrupt I am, that I’m stupid, uncreative, inadequate, ineff ectual, nasty, 
uncaring, and you’ll throw me out of the game. I hate to say this because it’s one of my rackets 
to handle this—to be humorous—I’m too short. I can see where my whole life is generated out 
of this. I am just terrifi ed. I’ve done everything to prove that I’m intelligent, creative, eff ective, 
productive. I lead The Forum which is a perfect way to avoid being present to the terror, when 
you’re up there with a microphone and drinking out of a cup, it’s very insulating. I’m terrifi ed of 
discovering how worthless I am. I went to an Ivy League university, graduated top of my class, a 
successful veterinarian, an eff ective Forum leader, all in an attempt to stop you from seeing that 
I’m none of the things I’m supposed to be. 
WES
Thanks.
PARTICIPANT
I’m terrifi ed all the time. Scared to death of horror movies.
WES
The fear is always already there. Horror movies just bring it up. Those of you who can’t be 
present to the fear raise your hands. 
PARTICIPANT
I’m afraid of being alive.
WES
All it takes is being able to acknowledge it. Try on the possibility that you actually are scared 
to death, and don’t know it, and don’t know that you don’t know it; that your whole life is a 
strategy for avoiding the domination of life. You’re scared of living. It’s too confronting. It’s 
all too dangerous. And your whole crummy act is put together as a strategy for making it in a 
world of danger. Try it on. Don’t reject it. Just acknowledge it for yourself.
Here Wes called for paired sharing, where participants sitting next to each other replicated for 
themselves what others have said before the entire group. Following this, Wes announced an eyes-
closed exercise. 
disclosure of its thrownness, and turns in its flight toward entities 
in the world, which it then identifies as the source of the fear. 
In anxiety, however, the entities in their significance disappear, 
and the background to all fears is revealed: 
What is the diff erence phenomenally between
that in the face of which anxiety is anxious and
that in the face of which fear is afraid? That in
the face of which one has anxiety is not an entity 
within-the-world. . . . That in the face of which 
one is anxious is completely indefinite. . . . 
[In anxiety], the world has the character of 
completely lacking significance. (BT 230–231,
emphasis added)
“
In moments of anxiety, the meanings with which we customarily 
comfort ourselves, even the meanings that make us fearful, 
lose their certainty, so that what is disclosed is the context of 
meaninglessness from which all of the meanings have been 
distinguished. 
That in the face of which one has anxiety is
characterized by the fact that what threatens is
nowhere. Anxiety ‘does not know’ what that in 
the face of which it is anxious is. . . . it is so close
that it is oppressive and stifles one’s breath, 
and yet it is nowhere. . . . [In anxiety] entities
within-the-world are of so little importance in 
themselves that on the basis of this insignifi-
cance of what is within-the-world, the world 
in its worldhood is all that still obtrudes itself.
What oppresses us is not this or that, nor is it the
summation of everything present-at-hand. . . .
Being-in-the-world itself is that in the face of 
which anxiety is anxious. (BT 231–232)
“


=== END OF PAGE 218 ===