=== PAGE 425 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
411
WES
No, there is languaging.
TIM
Languaging creates the rainstorm.
WES
Languaging creates everything.
TIM
Yeah. Including problems.
WES
Including problems. And you are given an already way of relating to problems. We’re giving you 
a new way to relate to problems: to let them be.
TIM
Okay.
WES
For the moment. In order to deal with something powerfully, you have to be able to let it be.
I can change the fl oor if I could let it be. If I’m arguing about the fl oor all day I’ll never get 
around to changing it. From complaining about the fl oor all day I’ll never get to deal with it.
TIM
Thank you.
WES
We’ve got “problems are in languaging,” and we’ve got a way where we can let them be. It’s
okay to have a problem. They occur in languaging. We want to look at a specifi c problem to 
see what access we have to the problem when we let it be. Now I’m going to share my one real 
problem—the problem of all The Forum leaders who live in California. My problem is “I want 
to go to the beach but I don’t have time. I’m always in The Forum.” Whatever your problem is, it
fi ts in that form. Something... but something.
On the chalkboard Wes wrote “I want to go to the beach but I don’t have time” on the chalkboard.
(continuing)
You need to take one of your problems and put it in that form. Get the confl icting things.
The way you get something stuck is you get one force opposed by an equal and opposite 
force. They have to be equal and opposite or you won’t get stuck. If one force is bigger than the 
other, there will be movement. Anybody who can’t see that? That’s the nature of a problem.
in the foreground of a conversation; but the distinction maintains its 
force only while those concepts are being generated. In this relevant
passage, Heidegger distinguishes two ways in which beings (includ-
ing ideas and concepts) can be brought to appear in the world:
Considered in terms of the essence of space, 
the diff erence between the two types of 
appearing is this: appearing in the first and 
authentic sense, as the gathered bringing-it-
self-to-stand, takes space in; it first conquers 
space; as standing-there, it creates space for 
itself; it brings about everything that belongs
to it, while it itself is not imitated. 
“
Appearing in the second sense merely steps
forth from an already prepared space, and it is 
viewed by a looking-at within the already fixed
dimensions of this space. The aspect off ered by
the thing, and no longer the thing itself, now
becomes what is decisive. Appearing in the first
sense rips space open. Appearing in the second 
sense simply gives space an outline and measures
the space that has been opened up. (IM 203–204,
emphasis and paragraphing added)
“
In the initial saying of a primordial metaphor, then, the space of a 
distinction is ripped open. Subsequently, with each new and onto-
logically consonant languaging of that distinction—or with each re 
iteration of the dialogic unfolding of the series of hints—the space
that has been created expands. 
But this demands that the space be opened newly in each occur-
y
rence. Erhard is emphatic on this point: “I never repeat material,” he
told an audience in 1989, “and I mean that quite literally. Every time
I deal with something, I deal with it anew, like something to make 
present between you and me” (“Beyond the Winning Formula”). 
Two categories of distinctions are suggested by the two guid-
ing questions of The Forum. The first category includes our current 
but concealed ways of being human—our “blind spots.” These are


=== END OF PAGE 425 ===