=== PAGE 298 ===

284
SPEAKING BEING
WES
And there’s another possibility outside the story. And what you got to do to step into it is like 
you’re saying, “surrender into something.” I don’t like the word... give something up to get in 
there. To be a willingness to be contributed to, to be generous, to be big, to forward the action...
KEVIN
I feel like I need to risk something. 
WES
Yes.
KEVIN
And a... I’m going to have to risk something that is really, really important to me, and I’m not 
even sure what that’s going to be at this point. That’s going to be really tough. That’s going to be 
real tough because I don’t risk anything.
KIPP
Keeping yourself that closed up, that’s what’s been tough. Couldn’t be any tougher than you are 
doing now.
KEVIN
Well, I don’t think I have a story beyond that. 
WES
Here’s what I’m asking. Look at this conversation about being generous, about being big, about 
being coachable, look at this thing about what you’re willing to risk. Tonight. And come back 
and share it tomorrow. 
KEVIN
Okay.
KIPP
What is this thing you have about being video- taped?
KEVIN
Well, I’m really surprised that more people don’t want to be videotaped. I don’t trust you. I’m 
not willing to be videotaped because I don’t trust the organization, WE & A. Because I think 
you’ll fuck it up, one way or the other. And once it’s on tape, there it is, there’s a lot that you can 
do with it. A lot can happen to it. I lose control of it. So I don’t want to lose control again. So I 
don’t see why I should be videotaped, that’s for your benefi t. It’s not helping me. I came here to 
help me.
KIPP
And to be clear I am not advocating that you should be videotaped. Just between you and me I 
couldn’t quite get what it was all about. So I needn’t fi nd out.
Waiting for the Leap
Central to a dialogue for the presencing of Being, says Heidegger, 
is the abandonment of a “thirst for knowledge and greed for 
explanations”; we must, instead, be willing to wait, and to “abide 
in hope before what is worthy of thought” (“DL” in OWL 13). 
Therefore it is of interest that, at one point in his dialogue with the 
Japanese scholar, even Heidegger expresses impatience with his 
partner’s enigmatic hesitation: “I shall not hide from you that you 
are throwing me into a state of great agitation,” says Heidegger, 
“especially because all my eff orts to get an answer to my question 
from language experts and linguistic scholars of language have so 
far been in vain” (“DL” in OWL 28).
Heidegger’s agitation may give comfort to those of us who, 
thrown to the eff icient formulation of definitions and concepts, 
nevertheless aspire to true philosophic dialogue—conversations 
that in the vernacular allow for “deep thinking.” Such dialogue, 
which thinks its way into the unknown and trusts the dialogue 
itself to find a way out, is a challenging undertaking, especially as a 
form of pedagogical inquiry. 
The balance of mutuality and directedness in ontological 
dialogue is one of the distinctions developed in the unspoken 
background of The Forum, and of this book.
The intention that generates ontological dialogue is the 
thinking of the unthought, and ultimately the unthinkable. 
Paradoxically, such thinking occurs both slowly and suddenly. As 
Werner Erhard has put it, you don’t get it and you don’t get it and 


=== END OF PAGE 298 ===