=== PAGE 552 ===

538
SPEAKING BEING
part of some students, but he created no seminars with that aim in mind. Erhard’s
work, in contrast, has been made available to more than two million people by way
of the Training and later The Forum. Linguistic distinctions developed by Erhard and
colleagues have had a vast if underappreciated influence on culture in the past forty
years. Many distinctions that Erhard coined or used in new contexts have found their 
way into the larger culture without being attributed to Erhard. The present book is in 
part an eff ort to correct this situation.
Another diff erence between Erhard and Heidegger concerns compassion and 
forgiveness. Those familiar with Heidegger know that such ideas rarely appear in his
early writings. In fact, his writings in the 1930s oft en emphasize steely resolution, 
authentic being-towards-death, and a kind of ruthless commitment to revolutionary 
change. Such discourse became particularly frequent and charged in the years when 
Heidegger was involved with National Socialism, beginning in 1932. Later on, Heide-
gger developed his famous discourse on Gelassenheit, or “releasement,” the attitude
of letting things be, which some have read as including compassion for others. 
Let me now answer the question that I posed at the beginning of this first 
section of this Aft erword, namely, “Do the remarkable parallels between the work 
of Erhard and Heidegger confirm the validity of their respective findings?” The fact
that Heidegger and Erhard arrived independently at similar findings about human
existence justifies taking the two views more seriously than either one alone. The 
remarkable confluence of their findings does not, of course, mean that they are 
true, such that other possible approaches to understanding human existence are 
excluded. Indeed, there are many alternatives, which are oft en incompatible with
one another. As any student of Heidegger’s work knows, it exhibits unusual depth
and originality; likewise, the distinctions that Erhard deployed in the Training and
The Forum have elicited from many thousands of people an experience of the
clearing that is central to Heidegger’s thinking. I hope that the book that Hyde and
Kopp have written will be the first of many other investigations into the ontology of 
human existence and into how we can elicit experiential insight into that ontology.
The question concerning Heidegger’s 
Politics
Let me now pose a second and final question: Do revelations about Heidegger’s
d
far-right-wing political views negate the value of all his work and disqualify him as a
philosopher?
Martin Heidegger settled on a philosophical career only aft er health concerns
required him to end his Jesuit novitiate. He remained drawn to the mysticism of 
Meister Eckhart, avidly read the works of Luther, and was influenced by Gnosticism.
In Being and Time Heidegger drew on such sources, and many others, in describing 
humankind as “thrown” and “fallen,” fleeing from finite openness and from the 
concrete possibilities disclosed therein, embracing instead routinized everyday 
practices, and being seduced by countless distractions aimed at concealing who we
really are. This book revolutionized twentieth-century European philosophy, and
Heidegger had a dramatic eff ect on students, many of whom were Jews, such as 
Hannah Arendt, Herbert Marcuse, Helena Weiss, Hans Jonas, and Karl Löwith.
These students were understandably shocked when in 1933 Heidegger publicly
announced his allegiance to National Socialism. Caught up in the ecstatic revo-
lutionary moment, Heidegger used his own discourse of resolute authenticity to 
encourage others to join him in supporting Adolph Hitler. For a few years Heidegger 
was a devoted follower, but gradually became disenchanted with what one might 
call the “really existing” Nazi party, which he came to regard as another version 
of the same techno-industrial nihilism that in his perspective animated American 
capitalism and Soviet Marxism. Nevertheless, he remained attached to the idea 
that National Socialism had contained an “inner truth and greatness” that had
been perverted by leaders who were not up to the task. Showing little sympathy for 
Heidegger’s attempted self-justification, however, the Allies in charge of post-war 
de-Nazification hearings concluded that his complicity with the Nazi regime made
him unfit for teaching. He was removed from his post at the University of Freiburg. 
Ever since then, controversy has raged about the extent to which the positive con-
tributions of Heidegger’s thought can be separated from his far-right-wing, arguably
anti-Semitic views.
I had always been concerned about his Nazi aff iliation, so much so that my first 
published article bears the title “Heidegger, Ethics, and National Socialism.”13 At that 
time, I tended to side with his supporters, who contended that one should distin-
guish between Heidegger the thinker and Heidegger the man, that is, the misguided 
political activist. Critics, on the other hand, charged that his philosophy had much 
in common with Nazi ideology. In the late 1980s publication of books demonstrating 
the aff inity between important aspects of Heidegger’s thought and Nazi ideology led 
me to rethink my attitude toward his philosophy, as I reported in my book, Heideg-
ger’s Confrontation with Modernity: Technology, Politics, Art. 14
In that book, I argued that Heidegger’s notion of the “history of being” had
much in common with views promoted by various Nazi ideologues and pro-Nazi phi-
losophers. According to Heidegger, modernity is the final stage in the long decline of 


=== END OF PAGE 552 ===