=== PAGE 82 ===

68
SPEAKING BEING
7:50 pm: Erhard’s manner was light and casual as he opened this session, interrupted by a number 
of people who were returning late from the meal break. The first participant to stand shared that in 
looking for issues to put at stake, he found that his issues were already big enough and did not feel 
he needed to invent new ones. Erhard noticed an empty seat and began to manage people missing.
ERHARD
I made up my mind not to call you assholes any more, but I want you to know it’s very hard. 
Speaking about issues and what you can have at stake...
(drawing a large circle on the chalkboard) 
Let that circle represent everything there is to know. Everyone in The Forum is successful. We 
know from independent studies of The Forum that participants are above average in their abil-
ity to succeed. So a certain amount of what is in this circle you know, and you know that you 
know. 
(drawing a small wedge in the circle) 
What we do to be successful and able is we put what we know to use. That’s what common 
sense tells us to do with what we know that we know. But there is also some stuff that we don’t 
know, and know that we don’t know.
(adding a larger wedge) 
The older I’ve gotten, the more I know I don’t know. Common sense tells us that to find out 
what we know that we don’t know, we need to go to school, read a book, take a seminar. I’d 
like you to see that you really fit that. The rest of the pie is what you don’t know that you don’t 
know. What does common sense tell you to do about that? Nothing. Common sense is silent on 
that subject. What The Forum is about is what you don’t know that you don’t know—what’s 
behind you that you can’t see. The purpose of The Forum is to provide access to what you didn’t 
know that you didn’t know. In independent surveys, people have reported that The Forum is the 
single most dramatic learning experience in their life.
(drawing a point on the second chalkboard)
When you take a point, which has zero dimensions, and extend it into the first dimension, you 
get a line.
(drawing a line extending from the point)
You don’t get a bigger and better point. Then, when you extend the line into the second dimen-
sion, you don’t get a bigger and better line: you get a plane.
(drawing out from the line to form a square)
And when you extend a two-dimensional plane into the third dimension, you don’t get a bigger 
and better plane, you get a three dimensional figure, in this case, a cube.
(building from the square, Erhard drew a cube)
Almost invariably, the results of our life are results from extending ourselves on the same 
dimension. But adding a new dimension is an exponential leap. You want to listen up here and 
get this! The Forum doesn’t push out on the dimensions of living already available to you. What 
FORUM DAY ONE: 
SESSION FOUR


=== END OF PAGE 82 ===