=== PAGE 210 ===

196
SPEAKING BEING
SESSION ONE INTERVAL
the pre-Socratics because they survive only in fragments whose interpretation can 
easily be skewed in a Heideggerian direction” (Polt 133). 
But Gerald L. Bruns, in his study of Heidegger’s later writing, has suggested 
that in his conversation with the ancient Greeks, Heidegger is musing on “a handful 
of overtranslated words (physis, logos, moira, eris, aletheia, hen)” in order to 
‘undertranslate’ these words, as if to preserve them in their darkness” (Heidegger’s 
Estrangements 181). This means taking words in “a sense which is diff erent from 
what is customary or established or used with reason; it is to take them in a sense 
which is wandering or ambiguous in the manner of the word rather than fixed in the 
manner of the term” (Heidegger’s Estrangements 181). Here we have wandered into 
a traditional definition of rhetorical figures, both tropes and schemes, which serve 
to turn us away from the common usage and meaning of sentences (schemes) and 
words (tropes). Etymology is one such turning away from the current and common 
to retrieve and make present what has been lost and dispersed; etymology is in 
essence a form of punning that brings about a shift , an awakening to a sense distinct 
from the obvious and everyday. Bruns writes that
“
Aft er all, an etymology is, rhetorically, a figure of speech that 
consists of taking a familiar expression strangely, where the 
strangeness takes the form of some repressed or forgotten 
“original sense.” But of course there never was such a sense 
in the sense of a time when etymology determined use. There 
never was anything but idiom, that is, no time of pristine, 
undisseminated (fixed) meaning. . . . To imagine a people
somewhere actually speaking etymologically is comic theatre 
worthy of Jonathon Swift  or James Joyce—or Woody Allen. 
(Gerald Bruns, Heidegger’s Estrangements 134–135)
While there is no “original” meaning of a word, the tendency to forget the constitutive 
possibilities of language leaves us to assume there was a time of pristine and fixed 
meaning from which we have devolved, and back to which the practice of etymology 
might bring us. Thus, remembering our forgetfulness through etymological punning—if 
we follow the movement of Heidegger’s figure—evokes the “strangeness” of what 
appears to be an “original sense.”
John D. Caputo has proposed a similar justification for these etymologies: 
Heidegger’s goal, says Caputo, is “to eff ect a ‘destruction,’ a shaking loose, of 
Western philosophy in order to gain access to what is really being said in and by it. 
The Forgetting of Being, Part Three of Eight: Heidegger's 
Etymologies
Heidegger’s project may be seen as a reaction against the development of the 
metaphysical tradition in Western thinking, and as a corresponding attempt to 
think a way back to the greatness which was promised at the beginning of Western 
philosophy. For Heidegger, a significant step in this thinking-back involves tracing 
the etymologies of terms whose meanings emerged with the pre-Socratic Greek 
thinkers, whose writings mostly exist as fragments. These meanings, and the path 
of their development over the centuries, have critically influenced the way human 
beings in Western cultures (and, increasingly, global cultures) experience their 
world.
The meanings of these terms, Heidegger claims, took an unfortunate turn 
early in their development, so that today, in our loss of an experience of Being, we 
suff er the consequences of this devolution. Heidegger is forceful on this point: our 
language, he says, is “worn out.” We must therefore “seek to win back intact the 
naming force of language and words; for words and language are not just shells 
into which things are packed for spoken and written intercourse. In the word, in 
language, things first come to be and are” (IM 15).
In tracing this historical process, Heidegger has constructed what Richard 
Polt describes as “a saga in which an original Greek experience of unconcealment 
degenerated into a focus on correctness, with dire consequences for us all” 
(Heidegger: An Introduction 133). Heidegger’s historical perspective on language, 
and thus Being, is developed throughout his writing, and is therefore complex and 
varying, especially aft er the “turn” in his later work. But, says Polt, what remains 
constant is that the story of Being is a story of decline, “a fall from a promising Greek 
beginning” (132).
In his attempt to restore the power of Being, therefore, Heidegger proposes 
to explore the earliest extant written clues to our origins. In his development of 
these etymologies, Heidegger’s readings of the Greek texts are controversial. John 
Stewart, among others, has raised the question of whether these readings are in fact 
supported by the texts themselves (“Speech and Human Being” 64); and Richard 
Rorty has gone so far as to call Heidegger’s etymologies “largely fake” (Contingency, 
Irony, and Solidarity 131). Polt characterizes them as “idiosyncratic,” and wonders 
whether, in his selection of Greek texts to deconstruct, Heidegger is “so attracted to 


=== END OF PAGE 210 ===