=== PAGE 286 ===

272
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
Hold on. You want to get that. That conversation’s come up in here a lot of times and it’s still 
not fl at. Being able to be what you’re afraid you might be gives you power.
FRED
So when I fi nally looked at that I actually had a tremendous feeling of real freedom. I really got 
that I’m absolutely inauthentic, it’s just how I am, it’s like telling the truth for the fi rst time, 
it gave me a whole playground where I could just be or express or create who I am. I had this 
thing tied up with the God issue the lady had brought up before, that I was here on earth to be 
the guardian of the playground...
(laughter)
But I couldn’t play. My job was to be this superior, arrogant person who is going to guard and 
protect the playground, but I wasn’t going to get to play. But I can’t play. When I fi nally saw that 
I’m inauthentic, it was almost a celebration. It’s great! I’m inauthentic. Now there’s a place to 
start from to fi nd out who I really am. 
ERHARD
Don’t misinterpret what Fred is saying. He means what he says but don’t listen to it wrong. He’s 
saying, “embracing what you’re afraid you might be gives you power.” He didn’t say, “make 
being inauthentic right.” He said he was able to embrace it. That he was able to be in the face of 
it. Whatever you can be with lets you be. Whatever you can’t be with won’t let you be. 
FRED
So it’s like a...
ERHARD
It’s almost starting to get clear in here. It’s like “yeah, yeah, I know that, why are you saying it 
again?”
FRED
And so it’s like this whole new sense of freedom. You know before The Forum my wife was 
telling me, “Fred, you don’t know who you are.” That made me furious. And the truth is I don’t 
know who I am. And to be able to get that I’m inauthentic, that’s the most freedom I think I’ve 
ever had.
KIPP
It is the most freedom you’ve ever had.
FRED
I was looking at the issue of the empty and meaningless. I’m not sure that I have that like I have 
“inauthentic.” And I want to interact for a moment to get it...
“ 
might be gives you power.


=== END OF PAGE 286 ===