=== PAGE 85 ===

Forum Day One: Session Four 
71
in life that’s worth knowing is merely an extension of what I already know. But the truth is that 
everything worth knowing is going to violate what you know.
(continuing to read)
“The will to know does not will to abide in hope before what is worthy of thought.”
(to the group)
I think all there is, is having thoughts. But there are certain things that if you stand in front of 
them in a certain way, give you thinking. If you stand in front of things worthy of thought you 
get thinking. Thinking is a dance with that about which you are thinking. When you stand in 
front of questions worthy of thought, you get thinking. Now that’s tough, because we’re in the 
rainstorm called “I think.” We’re all Cartesians. No one’s had an original thought since then 
about thinking—at least not one that has gotten to you or me. You and I are still Cartesians. But 
there are possibilities beyond Descartes. And they give you access to a new way of being that 
you can’t get to—being the kind of person you already always are. We’re going to be thinking. 
That’s the way The Forum works. It goes backwards.
PARTICIPANT
What about disciplines that promise “inner transcendence”?
ERHARD
Inner transcendence. That’s what California is about. I don’t want to insult your pet project, 
but I am not a guy in a diner about getting someplace. And you aren’t going to get there leaping 
over being human. There’s no possibility of being beyond what you already always are until you 
own what you already always are. Californians don’t like that. Californians have this magical 
bullshit they believe in. That’s not the way The Forum works. The Forum’s got two pieces to it. 
The first is an inquiry into the already always being of human being. What kind of an opening 
are you for life? What’s the color of the clearing you are for life? To say that more rigorously: 
what is the already always condition of being for human beings? What did you get yourself 
into here? Not your individual version of being human. That’s the question of ninety percent of 
The Forum. That’s called going backwards. It’s about owning yourself as you already are. Being 
authentic about inauthenticity is particularly frightening for Californians. We don’t want to be 
inauthentic. Why? Because it looks bad. And I don’t like looking bad. And your life is about 
looking good. This is moving backwards to own what I already always am. This is not individ-
ualistic except that each of us has his or her own version, we got wet in this rainstorm called 
human being. What is it to be a human being? See, people don’t ask that question. They want to 
be thinner, younger, sexier. Those questions don’t give thinking. Because it is a question worthy 
of thought it creates the possibility of thinking.
The Forum is two questions. The first: what is the already always being of human beings? Being 
human owns you. It gives you your life. The second half of The Forum is another question. The 
second question is, what is the possibility of being for human beings? What’s possible beyond 
what I was given to be? I did what’s called in Zen the low road. In the low road you must do 
everything that doesn’t work. So I’m not a guy in a diner about the low road. Most people want 
“ 
There’s no possibility of being beyond what 
you already always are until you own what 
you already always are.


=== END OF PAGE 85 ===