=== PAGE 379 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
365
ERHARD
And that’s the way that is. And you know you can bitch and moan and complain, and all the 
stuff  about that, or you can get that that is where the door is. A lot of people want to go out 
there, and they go over and start kicking on the wall. Because they want to go out there! Fine, 
the door is over there. You want to have your way, what you got to get is where the door is. And 
where the door is, is that your father’s the boss. That’s how to get what you want is “my father’s 
the boss.” If you try to get what you want through “my father’s the boss,” you go through the 
door, instead of kicking your way through the wall. You have a much better chance getting 
to what’s on the other side of the wall going through the door than kicking your way through 
the wall. Yeah, you’ll get through the wall every once in a while, but you’ll also be left bloody. 
Yeah, and the other thing is that it isn’t fair. Gravity isn’t fair. Shouldn’t old people get a break 
from gravity? That’s what you sound like with that “life isn’t fair” shit. Okay fi ne. That’s where 
the door is: The door is, “life isn’t fair.” You want to get where you’re going, you’ve got to go 
through the door. Continuing to kick the wall is saying “life isn’t fair.” What is this conversa-
tion “Life isn’t fair”? What is it? What is the point? It’s another goddamned drama. Life isn’t 
fair. Your father’s the boss, and you live with another adult. You ought to be equal. Too bad. 
That’s not the way it turned out. Your father’s the boss, and you can get what you want—not 
that you can always get what you want—but you got some power to get what you want, as long 
as you go through the door. If you don’t go through the door you’re going to have to use force. 
You’re going to have to make your father wrong, or run away, or fuck something up...
Even if I’m going through the door, but I’m being covert about it then I’m kicking down the 
wall. 
ERHARD
Exactly. And I didn’t say you shouldn’t use your wiles. Nothing wrong with buttering up the old 
man.
(laughter)
You don’t want to defi ne everything. “Okay, now we’re going to do foreplay, are you ready?” 
It’s not a good approach. So yeah, covert is one thing, and playing the game is another thing. 
You’re allowed to play the game and that will work.
SALLY
Being covert won’t work?
ERHARD
No. Being covert doesn’t work. That’s like trying to put one over on somebody. But playing with 
people works. Particularly with fathers with their daughters. Fathers are easy with their daugh-
ters, except when the daughter tries to kick through the wall, right? Okay, you can sit down.


=== END OF PAGE 379 ===