=== PAGE 125 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session One 
111
ERHARD
Now is that true? Did that ever happen? “Men don’t like me?” Is it true “I’m not attractive”? Is
that true? Could that be true? Who said yes? “Not attractive” could happen? Stand up. I want 
you to tell me how that could happen.
SAM
I could make it up that I’m not attractive.
ERHARD
Oh, that’s a story. “Not attractive” can’t happen. Did you ever wonder, “that guy is so unattractive.
How did he ever get that woman? She must be blind.” Do you know that attraction is the weirdest 
stuff  in the universe? Everybody’s attractive. A lot of people don’t troll their bait, that’s all. So if 
your story is that “I’m tall and gawky and not attractive,” you don’t have your bait out. I would be
willing to bet that there isn’t anybody for whom there are no fi sh, given what I’ve seen. You begin
to live out of a story that you’re not attractive. Don’t tell me there are no fi sh if you’re not trolling.
(to Jodie)
You were saying?
JODIE
So I got attractive. And I know that I can walk into a room and every man will look at me.
That’s happened for me.
ERHARD
Nothing’s changed about being tall, right? Tall is now attractive. Same stuff . I want to get this
clear with you. You gotta get this.
Erhard walked to the blackboard, and drew two circles. One circle he labeled “attractive,” one he 
labeled “not attractive.” He wrote “tall” in both.
(continuing)
The way things are is not determined by the way things are. That’s hard to think, so that’s what
I’m asking you to think. The way things are is determined by the context in which things occur.
t
I’m wanting you to begin to see that this part—the circle, the context—is critically important.
I’m saying that the circumstances never produce problems. I don’t care what happened in your
r
life. That’s not the problem. I don’t care if you were raped when you were a little girl or you 
were molested when you were a little boy. I don’t care who’s sitting there with cancer. I know 
you think that did something bad to you. I’m saying no. The circumstances never are the prob-
lem. Tall occurs as not attractive in one context, in one domain of existence, and tall occurs as
attractive in another domain of existence. Anybody not get that? It’s never what happened that’s 
the problem. I don’t care what’s happened in your life. That is not the problem. The problem is 
the context in which “what happened” occurred.
(to Jodie)
Yes, you were saying...
onto someone or something else whom you can make wrong, is 
a significant payoff  of one’s racket, a distinction that has been
mentioned several times but will not be distinguished until the
next session. 
Aside from the payoff , the structure of a racket has another 
element: the cost. And here Heidegger names it: “[B]ecause the 
‘they’ constantly accommodates the particular Dasein by disbur-
dening it of its Being, the ‘they’ retains and enhances its stubborn 
dominion” (BT 165). Through its surrender to the domination of 
T
the “they,” Dasein has embraced the Cartesian security of being 
right in its averageness; but it has at the same time sacrificed its 
freedom and power. As The Forum participant Jodie states, “look-
ing good rules my life.”
In these “characters of Being,” says Heidegger, we find “the
‘constancy’ of Dasein which is closest to us” (BT 166). Certainly, the
T
attitudes and behaviors he has presented here are familiar to all
of us—and if we can’t quite recognize them in ourselves, we can 
certainly recognize them in others, or in the culture at large. And 
we must feel some discomfort in acknowledging that his descrip-
tions are so apt.
But straight talk about the way things look now is the essen-
tial first step in gaining a new perspective; and in The Forum, the 
creation of a new possibility must be preceded by a hard look at 
our present way of Being. Heidegger takes us through the steps 
one at a time.
“
 Neither the Self of one’s own Dasein nor the 
Self of the Other has as yet found itself or lost 
itself as long as it is in the modes we have 
mentioned. In these modes one’s way of Being 
is that of inauthenticity and failure to stand 
by one’s Self. (BT 166)
Confronting the reality of the they-self responds to the first question 
of The Forum: “What is the Being of human being?” Authenticity 
and taking a stand become available when the second is addressed: 
“What is the possibility of Being for human being?” ■


=== END OF PAGE 125 ===