=== PAGE 313 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Four 
299
My evidence is that your best and my best moments, my talents, the “what I’m good at,” the 
“what I can be counted on”—including getting married, a good moment; having children, 
raising children, a good moment; doing well in my job, a good moment: I’m talking about 
the stuff ... I use to generate achievement. The exercise of that does not leave me full, whole, 
complete, full of joy. It’s gratifying. God knows that whenever I have an accomplishment, I feel 
great: a couple of moments, a couple of hours, a couple of days, a couple of weeks, maybe even 
a year. But at some point I’m back to: that wasn’t enough.
SUZANNE
So where is the satisfaction?
ERHARD
The level of satisfaction is that there’s no full satisfaction. There’s no being complete with life. 
One is always incomplete. It’s the conversation we had earlier about someday. See, someday, 
someday I’m going to contribute enough, achieve enough, to have made it. No. Because 
every accomplishment makes the context—there’s something wrong here—bigger, more 
stronger, more valid, all that below the level of awareness. See up at the level of awareness I’m 
developing myself and being a decent human being and making some sort of contribution, 
and taking care of myself and taking care of the people around me. That’s all content, that’s all 
foreground. The context, the background, which is reinforced by every achievement, is “there 
is something wrong here.” What that leads to is never being satisfi ed. Ever. Never being full of 
joy. Never. Never being complete never being whole. Life is always incomplete. And life is lived 
as a struggle to be complete, to fi nally be satisfi ed. So that’s my evidence. It doesn’t prove what I 
said, because you can’t prove an assertion. But it does validate it.
SUZANNE
So it’s best to assume that in anything we do we have that, we don’t get satisfi ed. There’s more. I 
should assume that there should be more.
ERHARD
I’m not saying you should assume that, I’m saying we live like that. You and I and the other 
eight hundred people sitting in this room and the other half a million people that I’ve 
worked with.
SUZANNE
So that follows the logic that life is meaningless and empty, and therefore if life is meaningless 
and empty, it is zero. Zero.
ERHARD
I don’t want to make the conclusion you made. Yes, what we are saying here is entirely 
harmonic with that life is meaningless and empty. You see it got to be pretty clear that 
everybody’s soap opera was bullshit, meaningless and empty, now I want to get it clear that the 
rest of it is bullshit: the good parts. I want you to see where they come from. So that you get that 
the whole thing is meaningless and empty. It’s not that I want it to be that way. It is that way. 


=== END OF PAGE 313 ===