=== PAGE 165 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session Three 
151
ANGEL
So I’m inauthentic about caring.
ERHARD
Precisely. Now you have a great fucking act. It’s attractive, like bait.
Erhard sat on the edge of the platform, facing Angel. His tone was more forceful in this interaction
than it had been with Mike. Kipp again sat nearby.
ERHARD (continuing)
You attract people because you’re good at your act called caring. And you’re good at your act 
called deeply feeling. So you get the fi sh up.
ANGEL
I was so good I believed it.
ERHARD
Exactly. See, underneath there is some kind of caring. I don’t know what the hell it is. Maybe
you care, I don’t know. That doesn’t interest me. I’ll tell you one thing. You’ll never be happy 
being something you’re not, being your act. Ever. You’re never going to care enough, feel deeply 
enough, to be happy, because none of that is who you are. And I don’t know what you are. You 
may be caring. I don’t know. Neither do you. You only know what your act is. What there is to 
get is that it’s an act. You’ve done a very good job of that standing there. And I know it isn’t easy. 
You noticed how a lot of the stupidity for Mike started to go away near the end of that conver-
sation, interesting, right? Yeah. You want to relax for a little while; about this caring shit and 
about being deeply feeling. You might want to enjoy yourself for a little while, having some fun 
being shallow.
(laughter)r
See it doesn’t make any diff erence. This is a really important conversation because most of the
acts are going to look a little nasty. But a positive act is as detrimental as a negative one, in fact
it’s worse. She would have died like that. Shit. All the pain is pure bullshit, pure bullshit, noth-
ing authentic about the pain, not an iota of it. It’s all there to make you right. The pain’s not so
attractive anymore is it?
ANGEL
No.
ERHARD
What happened? You got divorced twice. Okay. That’s what happened, right? You got married. 
Then you got divorced. You got married. Then you got
divorced. That’s all that happened. Not, “and I didn’t keep my vows, and nah nah nah nah.”
None of that ever happened.


=== END OF PAGE 165 ===