=== PAGE 216 ===

202
SPEAKING BEING
of you are dealing with danger by being smart. Some of you are dealing with danger by being 
successful. Your racket is your way of dealing with the danger that life is. I want you to consider 
the possibility that along with this fundamental point of view there is an experience of living, 
which is almost never acknowledged by people. It’s totally suppressed, but it runs your life. It 
runs your relationships with other people. Ask yourself, why do I have to have a racket? What’s 
it covering over? What’s driving it?
LOTTIE
I’m so tough I don’t need anybody. I’m supposed to know and if I don’t know then I’m not 
tough.
WES
What does that cover over?
LOTTIE
That I’m a woman. 
WES
What’s the experience underneath that?
LOTTIE
That I’m a sexual being; that I’m not supposed to want it.
WES
Are you scared of sex?
LOTTIE (reluctantly)
Yes.
WES
You see, she couldn’t even say it. Couldn’t acknowledge it. And this is a woman who was really 
trying to say it, but it was horrifying to even acknowledge that she’s scared of it—because she’s 
tough. Tough people are never afraid.
LOTTIE
I just about died at the thought that it could be a part of my life.
WES
Got it. Great. Thanks.
(applause)
Other participants shared their answers and as they did so Wes indicated the fear that underlay 
each one: “I’m afraid I’ll get taken advantage of”; “I’m terrifi ed of being alone”; “I’m afraid of being 
Why do such moods give a possibility of authentic self-disclosure? 
Remember, we are questioning aft er the background, the 
determinative context for the everyday. Heidegger calls it the nothing, 
but it generally occurs for us as something, and we resist it. If we are 
moved to seek it, however, where can we look? Heidegger’s response:
In the end an essential distinction prevails
between comprehending the whole of beings in
themselves and finding oneself in the midst of 
beings as a whole. The former is impossible in
principle. The latter happens all the time in our 
existence. (“WM” in BW 99, emphasis added)
“
If the nothing itself is to be questioned as we
have been questioning it, then it must be given
beforehand. We must be able to encounter it.
Where shall we seek the nothing? . . . The total-
ity of beings must be given in advance so as to 
be able to fall prey straightway to negation—in 
which the nothing itself would then be mani-
fest. (“WM” in BW 98, emphasis added)
“
But for the background to be disclosed, it must become the 
foreground: our presence to the whole must occur as salient. 
This shift may happen, for example, in the mood of boredom:
No matter how fragmented our everyday exis-
tence may appear to be, [. . .] it always deals with
beings in a unity of the “whole,” if only in a shad-
owy way. Even and precisely when we are not
actually busy with things or ourselves, this “as
a whole” overcomes us—for example in genuine
boredom. . . . Profound boredom, drift ing here 
and there in the abysses of our existence, like a
muff ling fog, removes all things and human be-
ings and oneself along with them into a remark-
able indiff erence. This boredom reveals beings as
a whole. (“WM” in BW99)
“
It is the function of The Forum to make present the totality of beings 
so that it can be cleared through negation.
WES (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 216 ===