=== PAGE 47 ===

Forum Day One: Session One Interval 
33
language “the house of Being” gives a “hint of the nature of language,” the scholar 
immediately recognizes the danger: “I fear that to call your ‘house of Being’ a hint 
might tempt you and me to elaborate the notion of hinting into a guiding concept in 
which we then bundle up everything” (“DL” in OWL).  Heidegger concurs, but adds 
that this error can “never be prevented in the sense of being totally excluded,” since 
“the mode of conceptual representation insinuates itself all too easily into every 
kind of human experience” (“DL” in OWL 25). 
A relevant observation by the senior author: during my years of participation in 
Erhard’s work, the distinguishing of distinctions has remained a source of fascina-
tion, challenge, and even mystery for me. I have observed conversations between 
Forum leaders—people for whom the development of distinctions is central to their 
professional practice—in which the speaking occurred to me as a kind of short-
hand. Elements of everyday interaction—details,  transitions, connections—seemed 
to be missing. On one occasion, a statement by one Forum leader elicited this re-
sponse from another: “You’re explaining it. Distinguish it.” I found myself struggling 
to recognize the difference being referred to. 
An extensive hint at the nature of distinctions is found in Heidegger’s later work, 
where he turned his attention increasingly to the ontological possibilities of art, and 
specifically of poetry. Poetry, he said, is projective saying—that is, a kind of saying 
which projects a clearing for Being by speaking the unspoken. “Projective saying 
is saying which, in preparing the sayable, simultaneously brings the unsayable as 
such into a world” (“OWA” in PLT 71). But such saying is not limited to the speaking 
of the poet, because “Language itself is poetry in the essential sense” (“OWA” in PLT 
72). Indeed, “everyday language is a forgotten and used-up poem, from which there 
hardly resounds a call any longer” (“L” in PLT 205). 
The thinker, says Heidegger elsewhere, confines his thinking to a single 
thought (PLT 4). Heidegger’s single thought was the question of Being. A similar 
single-mindedness characterizes the poet, and so Heidegger’s description of the 
poet’s relation to the unsayable is useful:
Every great poet creates his poetry out of one single 
poetic statement only. . . . The poet’s statement remains 
unspoken. None of his individual poems, nor their totality, 
says it all. Nonetheless, every poem speaks from the whole 
of the one single statement, and in each instance says that 
statement. (“LP” in OWL 160)
“
Therefore all of Heidegger’s writing and all of Werner Erhard’s work, as well as all the 
poetry of Dickinson or Rilke or Wallace Stevens, may be seen as bodies of hints for 
the Saying of what is essentially unsayable.  


=== END OF PAGE 47 ===