=== PAGE 53 ===

Forum Day One: Session Two
39
(turning to The Forum Supervisor) 
Julie, would you ask Eric to get the Heidegger books out of my room.
(returning to the blackboard, and pointing to the circle labeled “story”)
I want to take back making this bad. What’s disempowering is not the story, what’s disempow-
ering is when you collapse “what happened” with the “story” and you can’t distinguish the story 
from what happened. You can’t distinguish because you’ve got this mush, this mess, this swamp
of what happened and the story mixed together. The two need to be distinct. What does distinct 
mean? It means existing then on their own, being there of themselves. It’s possible for Vietnam 
to exist as a story and it’s possible for Vietnam to exist as a what happened. They’re two distinct 
realms of existence. Sometimes the story is appropriate, sometimes what happened is appropri-
ate. What’s never appropriate is when these two distinctions get collapsed.
As this conversation developed, Erhard added other terms to his blackboard model. In the right
circle, below “what happened,” he wrote “presence” and “I’m late.” In the other, below “story,” was 
written “concept” and “reasons.”
ERHARD
Confusing what happened with your story about it is like ordering steak and then mixing the
steak with the menu. Most people think life is sour because they’ve been eating the menu for 
so long, they don’t recognize reading the menu. You should not say “I love you” to people. You 
should say, “I live with the concept ‘I love you.’” Love as a concept is sometimes important, but
t
it isn’t the same as love as a presence. What falls out of my mouth when I say “chair” is a con-
cept. It’s not a chair—but it’s useful. Just separating the two domains of existence in any area of 
your life will leave you with more power in that area. For this to work, try it on in your own life. 
This is not the truth. Try it on. If it works, good; if not, throw it away.
At this point, The Forum Supervisor brought Erhard a copy of Heidegger’s What is Called Thinking? 
(1968, pages 76-77). He spent a minute looking for the passage he wanted, and fi nally turned back 
to her.
ERHARD
This is the wrong copy. This is not the copy I can fi nd things in. I have two marked copies and I 
can fi nd things in one and not the other.
Julie brought up the correct copy.
ERHARD (beginning to read)
“People still hold the view that what is handed down to us by tradition is what in reality lies 
behind us—while in fact it comes toward us because we are its captives and destined to it.”
(pausing)
We think we’re out in front of tradition on the leading edge. He’s talking about where the rub-
ber meets the road. This is not some fancy talk.


=== END OF PAGE 53 ===