=== PAGE 101 ===

Forum Day One: End of Day One Interval 87
The outcome of this experiment led him to the formulation that has come
down to us as his most famous statement, one familiar to almost every university 
undergraduate although generally without a clear idea of its implications: I think,
therefore I am (or in Descartes’ original Latin, Cogito, ergo sum).
That is: if I doubt everything, the only thing of which I can be certain is that I
am the doubter. I can know nothing with certainty except myself, as the one who
is thinking. Further, since I am the only certainty, I am also the inevitable arbiter of 
what counts as real. In the Cartesian model of human being that emerged from this 
experiment—the model that today we inhabit unthinkingly—the cogito, the “I,” the 
being who thinks, is the grounding certainty at the center of things. It is the subject 
(Latin subjectum, what lies beneath), while out there, independent of the subject, is a 
world of objects (objectum, over against). For humans, Being-in-the-world demands
that we determine the true meanings of those objects. Heidegger scholar Michael E.
Zimmerman describes the situation this way:
Although Copernicus had only recently shattered man’s
illusions about being the center of the physical universe,
Descartes established man as the ontological center:
l
henceforth, the reality of the real was what man asserted it
to be. . . . “To be” meant to be conceived by and through the
subject. . . . Everything got determined and evaluated from
the standpoint of man. (“Beyond ‘Humanism’: Heidegger’s
Understanding of Technology” 222)
It is this paradigm, of the fixed and self-certain human subject, that both Heide-
gger and Erhard are placing in question through their work. As Heidegger points out,
Descartes arrived at his conclusion by accepting as given the nature of the sum—
Being, the “I am.” But Heidegger proposes that the nature of “I am” has never been 
fully worked out in the history of Western philosophy, so that behind Descartes’ con-
clusion “there lies hidden a failure to master the basic problem of Being” (BT 127). 
T
The Cartesian model itself was the result of an experiment in reflexive thinking.
The heart of the subject–object distinction is “I think something” (EP 62) a premise
P
that turns thinking back upon itself, toward the “I,” and thus toward “the presenta-
tion-to-self and self-production” (EP 64). Presentation demands production, since 
the “I” is not there to be reflected upon. In reflecting upon my self, I create my self.
“
But in the Cartesian model, the subject is self-certain—that is, certain of itself 
as an entity that persists. The clearing for creation has been occupied. Therefore
Heidegger proposes that self-consciousness, which has in Descartes’ model bent
back far enough to see its “I,” must now bend back further and confront the context
in which the “I” stands essentially, a context that puts its self’s certainty in question.
As we will show, the culminating event of The Forum—the unconcealment of 
 Being—is accomplished through the evocation of a profound bending-back, reveal-
ing not only the context of the “I,” but in a masterful moment of existential rug-pull-
ing, the context of that context as well. 


=== END OF PAGE 101 ===