=== PAGE 69 ===

Forum Day One: Session Two
55
begin with being authentic. Authenticity begins with being authentic about your inauthenticity. 
If you’re ever going to have any degree of authenticity the only way to get there is to start with
being authentic about your inauthenticity.
(to the group)
I’m not interested in your belief systems, I’m not interested in your values, I’m not interested in
your principles. So no more conversations like I just had with Jake and Paul. I don’t mean don’t
say anything, I mean don’t preach. I’ll do all the preaching in here, and if I’m any good, I won’t
do any either. All I’m asking when I talk to you about the things I’m talking about is: build
a square, stand inside of it, look out at life and the world and see what you can see standing
in that square and standing in that possibility. If it empowers you to stand there, keep it. If it
doesn’t empower you to stand there, destroy it. Simple.
BELLA
You said to someone else that something happened when they were a child. I remembered. My 
father was a liar, and I decided I could never be that. I had to be honest. I’ve had no freedom to 
keep my word.
ERHARD
You can’t be anything you’re forced to be. Anything you are forced to be, you aren’t.
BELLA
I couldn’t stand the feeling.
ERHARD
Yeah.
(to the group)
Who couldn’t stand being a liar?
(several raise their hands)
You think a truth teller would fi nd lying absolutely abhorrent? For the person who tells the
truth you don’t have any problem with a lie, it’s only somebody down in the swamp, in the bot-
tom of the Valley of the Shadow of Death, who is afraid they might be a liar. I know you know 
better.
BELLA
I am a liar.
ERHARD
Yeah. You are a liar. That’s being authentic about being inauthentic. And that’s the beginning of 
authenticity—and the beginning of the freedom to tell the truth.
“ 
All I’m asking when I talk to you about the 
things I’m talking about is: build a square,
stand inside of it, look out at life and the 
world and see what you can see standing in
that square and standing in that possibility.


=== END OF PAGE 69 ===