=== PAGE 494 ===

480
SPEAKING BEING
JERRY
I hear you. I’m worried that I’m missing what “is” means.
ERHARD.
Good. Listen up. You told me what you didn’t get. We would say, you and I, because of the way 
you and I are, that the ball is going at a certain speed, and it is arriving at a certain proximity to 
your body at a certain place. So we would say it is catchable depending on how fast it’s going 
and on how far it was when it started coming at you...
JERRY
I have a problem concentrating on what you’re saying. I’m sorry. It’s like you’re talking too fast 
or I’m thinking too slow.
ERHARD
I understand: We’re talking in a place where you have your foot nailed to the fl oor. It’s all right. 
You’re doing great. Just tell me to slow down.
JERRY
Thank you. Please slow down. 
ERHARD
We’re contrasting an “is” ball and an “occurring” ball.
JERRY
I understand an occurring ball, I don’t understand an “is” ball.
ERHARD
The ball is going at a certain speed, yes? And the ball is in your range of vision for a certain 
amount of time. 
JERRY
Okay.
ERHARD
That’s what is, you and I would say. It is going at a certain speed. And it is in your range of 
vision for a certain amount of time. And you and I would say if it is going in this envelope of 
speed—not faster than this, but in this envelope of speed—and if you have that much time to 
watch the ball going at that speed, the ball is catchable.
JERRY
Right. I got it.
ERHARD
So that’s an is catchable ball. But you and I do not act on “is ball”; you and I act on “occur ball.” It 
doesn’t make any diff erence how fast the ball is going. Your actions are correlated to how fast the ball 
and the absence, as a persisting background that contextualizes 
your experience of the presence. In the presence of something, 
you sense the possibility of nothing.
Heidegger scholar Susan Schoenbaum has proposed an 
interesting analogy as a clue to this world of emergence and 
withdrawal: the way the diff erentiation between foreground and 
background occurs for us in our visual consciousness: 
In this diff erentiation, the background is deter-
mined as receding into indetermination as the
foreground becomes more or less determinate.
The phenomenal movement of foregrounding
and backgrounding, the coming to be back-
ground and the coming to be determinate fore-
ground, all occur simultaneously. This complex
movement of determination is originary in the
sense that it makes simultaneously possible
(a) the determination of background (however 
indeterminate) as background and foreground
as foreground, (b) the consequent appearing
of determinate beings that appear (in the
foreground), and (c) the coming into being of 
the entire constellation as context or world,
including background, foreground, and the
determinate movements of diff erentiation. All
these aspects belong to an originary event of 
diff erentiation of background and foreground.
(A Companion to Heidegger’s Introduction to 
Metaphysics, 149–150, emphasis added)
“
In other words, there is much going on in our perception of the 
world that happens below the level of awareness even as it shapes 
that awareness. 
 Imagine now that this is the nature of reality: that we live 
in a world of be-ings, rather than merely beings, a world that is 
renewing itself in each instant. And imagine further that you, as a 
being in that world, are likewise emerging newly in every moment. 
Imagine that “you” are not a fixed phenomenon, but that, like 
the tree, you occur, for yourself and for others, and withdraw, and 
occur, a new being in each occurrence. Imagine that a human 


=== END OF PAGE 494 ===