=== PAGE 143 ===

 
 
Forum Day Two: Session Two 
129
MARY
I don’t want to follow the rules.
ERHARD
Are you up front about not wanting to follow the rules?
MARY
Yes.
ERHARD
Then it’s not a racket. So, let’s say we’re going to have a relationship. I’m going to be up front 
that I’m not going to follow the rules. Fine. No racket.
MARY
Are you saying it’s hidden?
ERHARD
It’s just not a racket if you’re up front about it. So if I say, hey Wes, I want to follow the rules in
the relationship, and I try to, but I just can’t do it. It’s not hidden, just something you’re protest-
ing. Something you’re resisting. If you’re doing what you want to do and saying that you don’t 
want to do it, and you’re doing it to get the payoff , that’s the racket.
ANOTHER PARTICIPANT
My racket is sitting still, not participating.
ERHARD
And he wants to stand up and participate, except he doesn’t, but he wants to. One more 
example.
ANOTHER PARTICIPANT
I say I am a partner with my husband, but I do things unilaterally.
ERHARD
Right, good. We’ll get into more examples, but fi rst I want to talk about the payoff s. If you’re 
unhappy about something in your life, unhappiness is invariably a racket because there’s some-
thing that you are that you don’t want to be. Nobody wants to be unhappy. What’s the payoff ? 
“Well there’s no payoff , it’s just terrible. I’m unhappy.” No, no. There’s a fucking payoff  in there. 
And the payoff  is...
(Kipp writing on the board: the three elements of a racket: Protest Payoff  Cost)
You’re protesting, but it persists... When you go home tonight and start to run your racket, 
I want it to be present for you like a racket, not like some fucking soap opera about “you’re
unhappy”; present for you more like “I’m that way because I’m getting something out of it. And
While Heidegger was committed to a transformation of 
his students’ thinking about Being, he did not engage them as 
individuals in a dialogue about the possibility of this transforma-
tion in their own lives—that is, in their own Being-in-the-world. 
Heidegger’s student Gadamer has commented in an interview with 
Ansgar Kemmann that Heidegger’s lectures, while astonishing in
their eff ects, were not explicit exchanges with his audience. In fact,
Gadamer has suggested that Heidegger’s relentless dedication to 
the communication of his ideas, in many ways so gripping, actually 
worked against his ability to engage the students in mutual con-
versation (“Heidegger as Rhetor” in HR 50).
An example of Heidegger’s pedagogical inquiry, consistent with 
Gadamer’s observation, is given in Medard Boss’s account of Heide-
gger’s 1958 seminars at the Psychiatric University Clinic in Zurich. 
Says Boss: “Only the participants of those first seminars are able 
to estimate what endless eff ort it cost until his medical listeners,
trained solely in natural science, began to even suspect what Heide-
gger was trying to say” (Heidegger and Psychology 10). The following
y
exchange is a fragment from the transcript of one of the seminars. 
Heidegger: What is distance?
Listener E: A definition of space.
Heidegger: What then is space as such?
(Ten long minutes of silence. . .)
 Listener F: We have never heard such questions
and do not know what you regard as important,
what you want to hear, what you want to say.
 Heidegger: I am only concerned that you open
your eyes and do not immediately dim and dis-
tort your vision once more with artificial sup-
positions or theoretical explanations. How is it,
then, with this matter that you have called an 
interval of space?
(Seven minutes of silence. . .). 
(Heidegger and Psychology 10–11)
“


=== END OF PAGE 143 ===