=== PAGE 383 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
369
JAKE
I was going to ask about the truth, but you already answered that question. But I wanted to also 
share a little about my racket. I wanted to thank you. It sounds like you knew a little bit more 
about me than I expected. I appreciate that.
ERHARD
I know about being human. 
JAKE
It sounds to me that you know what my profession is. I have an attractive profession. It makes 
me more attractive. 
ERHARD
I have a profound respect for your profession. And I probably have more respect for it than 
most of the people who do it. I see it as a very, very, very important opening for humanity. And 
I know there are also people in your profession who also see your profession in that way, but 
not a lot of them. There’s something very important in there that humanity has yet to explore. I 
have a deep respect for design. A deep respect. And it’s a mystery I don’t get. But your partic-
ular profession would not be a bad place to explore the mystery of design. But exploring the 
mystery of design is diff erent than just doing design. 
JAKE
And that’s what I would want to do, but having it as a racket just fucks it all up. And I chose 
the profession because it was an attractive profession. I chose it because I needed a job. I come 
from a highly educated family, and there’s one time I thought I was going to be a bum.
ERHARD
And you decided against that. 
JAKE
Yeah, I decided against that, so I went to school. I got a career: a degree and a license. And 
I was lucky enough to pick a profession, which I now fi nd exciting, but it’s really fucked the 
way—it could be a lot more exciting if I get this other shit out of the way.
ERHARD
Exactly. That’s very good. Jake and I have had enough interactions for something useful to 
happen here. See I know it sounds in the beginning in particular—and for some of you it still 
sounds like—that everything I say is an insult, everything I say is a put-down. I know that 
some of you will describe this to people as “they called me bad names”; ”they beat me up”; 
“They wouldn’t let me use the bathroom”; “He said ‘fuck’ and went like this.”


=== END OF PAGE 383 ===