=== PAGE 280 ===

266
SPEAKING BEING
In Heidegger’s imagining of this process as he finds it in the fragments of the Pre-
Socratics, we find a saga of violent images and primal struggle, at “the dawn of 
early times in the land of evening” (EGT 18). He is not aiming to provide a record 
of events, since events of the time are necessarily shrouded in darkness. His tale, 
he says, must therefore be less natural science than mythology (IM 173). He is 
presenting an account of the forces that must have been at play as human beings, 
and their world, emerged into a crucial evolutionary phase, and the thinkers of the 
time struggled to engage that emergence. In Heidegger’s account, the engagement 
is violent. 
But where in the world are these violent events occurring? This is not, aft er all,
a saga of nations in battle, but a story of thinkers thinking; and certainly it was on 
one level an intellectual event—a struggle of minds to engage and comprehend the
new, an “internal” process of perception and deliberation. But that process was at 
the same time bringing forth a world into the world for the first time. This world was 
not “out there,” waiting to be labeled; world arose (as it continues to arise) in its
apprehension by human Being-in-the-world. These primordial events, then, were
occurring at the wavering interface between looking and thinking and naming.
Further, in the process of naming, and thereby creating an order of rank and
place in a world of meaning, Heidegger says that the Greeks were leaving the realm
of mythology and entering history. They were the beings into whose evolutionary 
path had emerged the gift  of language. Now they were recognizing the inescap-
able obligation of the gift : humans must unconceal beings and name them as the 
beings they are, opening them to existence and providing that existence with limits. 
This was the task of the Pre-Socratic thinkers, as well as the poets, statesmen, and
artisans through whose work Greek culture developed: “Against the overwhelming
sway, they throw the counterweight of their work and capture in this work the world 
that is thereby opened up” (IM 68).
“
The temple, in its standing there, first gives to things their 
look and to men their outlook on themselves. . . . It is the
same with the sculpture of the god, votive off ering of the
victor in the athletic games. It is not a portrait whose purpose 
is to make it easier to realize how the god looks; rather, it is a 
work that lets the god himself be present and thus is the god
himself. (“OWA” in PLT 43)
T
Indeed, Heidegger writes, the “nature of art, on which both the art work and the 
artist depend, is the setting-itself-into-work of truth” (“OWA” in PLT 72). And in 
responding to the demand of truth setting-itself-into-work, humanity was for 
the first time “coming to itself”: “The selfhood of humanity means this: it has to 
transform the Being that opens itself up to it into history, and thus bring itself to a 
stand” (IM 160). And as the Greeks opened themselves into history, says Heidegger, 
the question about their own Being underwent a change from “What is humanity?” 
into the form “Who is humanity?” (IM 160).
Like many of the questions raised in Heidegger’s thinking, this one leaves us
thinking a precarious balance between human agency and evolutionary forces. At
this distance we cannot conceptualize the situation; Heidegger hints at its nature:
“
the violence-doing of poetic saying, of thoughtful projection,
of constructive building, of state-creating action, is not an 
application of faculties that the human being has, but is a dis-
ciplining and disposing of the violent forces by virtue of which 
beings disclose themselves as such, insofar as the human
being enters into them. This disclosedness of beings is the 
violence that humanity has to conquer in order to be itself first
of all, that is, to be historical in doing violence in the midst of 
beings. (IM 175)
M
But Heidegger challenges 
“
the opinion human beings cherish of themselves as those who 
have invented and who could have invented language and 
understanding, building and poetry. How is humanity ever 
supposed to have invented that . . . due to which humanity 
itself can be as humanity in the first place? (IM 174)
M
The struggle meant here is originary struggle, for it allows 
those that struggle to originate as such in the first place. . . .  
(IM 68)
M
This situation creates an interesting chicken-or-egg challenge for thinking: How 
did human beings create a world in language, when human beings themselves first 
came to be human beings through language? The scholar Charles Guignon has pro-
vided this useful observation of the quandary:


=== END OF PAGE 280 ===