=== PAGE 201 ===

Forum Day Three: Session One
187
JANE
Last summer at a camp.
ERHARD
What happened?
JANE
Everybody had to say their problem out in the open and I didn’t want to do it. They kept asking 
over and over until I did.
ERHARD
Can you remember a time before that speaking in front of a group of people?
JANE
I didn’t.
ERHARD
What about in school?
JANE
I never talked in school. I sat in the back.
ERHARD
When were you frightened about standing up?
JANE
In the fourth grade.
ERHARD  
What happened in the fourth grade? 
JANE
Well my fi rst year of fourth grade I had to stay back. And most of the people—well this is my 
story—made fun of me for staying back, and said I was stupid.
ERHARD
How do you do in school?
JANE
Fine. I get good grades.
ERHARD
Are you happy in school?
“
Our fundamental task now consists of awakening 
a fundamental attunement in our philosophizing. 
I deliberately say: in our philosophizing, not in
r
some arbitrary philosophizing nor even in phi-
losophy in itself, for there is no such thing. It is a 
matter of awakening a fundamental attunement
which is to sustain our philosophizing, and not
the fundamental attunement. Accordingly, there 
is not merely one single attunement, but several. 
(FCM 59)
The task that Heidegger proposes is the distinguishing of the 
fundamental attunements that, unrecognized, generate human 
thinking. His purpose here is not to ascertain these attunements, 
since that term implies objective knowing (i.e., the stance of a sub-
ject whose goal is to learn about something separate from itself),
but that I am never separate from my attunements:
“
Perhaps such a thing as the fundamental attune-
ment we are seeking is precisely something that 
cannot be ascertained in this way by an inquiry. It 
could be that it pertains to ascertaining an attune-
ment not merely that one has the attunement, 
but that one is attuned in accord with it. (FCM 60, 
M
emphasis added)
To know an attunement, then, requires
w
entering it.
Such inquiry makes a special demand of the inquirer, a
demand always present in ontological inquiry, and one that has
made scholarly or scientific studies of Werner Erhard’s work 
problematic. Central to The Forum’s promise is the possibility of 
choosing an authentic existence; but participants—even those
with scholarly credentials—cannot ascertain whether that result 
has been produced by hearing about the experiences of others in 
The Forum, or even by observing their behaviors. In this domain 
of knowing, the evidence lies in one’s own lived experience; and to 
further challenge scientific inquiry, it is in the nature of one’s lived
experience that what it means is up to you. 


=== END OF PAGE 201 ===