=== PAGE 182 ===

168
SPEAKING BEING
for its own why. The question “Why the Why?” looks externally 
and at first like a frivolous repetition of the same interroga-
tive, which can go on forever; it looks like an eccentric and
empty rumination about insubstantial meanings of words.
Certainly that is how it looks. The only question is whether we
are willing to fall victim to this cheap look of things and thus 
take the whole matter as settled or whether we are capable 
of experiencing a provocative happening in this recoil of the 
why-question back upon itself. (IM 6)
M
END OF DAY TWO INTERVAL
The Forgetting of Being, Part Two of Eight:  Questioning
The Forum is an inquiry. It is a process of asking questions, not providing informa-
tion. The value of the process arises in the questioning itself. This is questioning of a 
radically diff erent nature than we are accustomed to. “To pronounce the interroga-
tive sentence, even in a questioning tone, is not yet to question,” says Heidegger; he 
continues:
“
If I say to you “Why are there beings at all instead of nothing?”
then the intent of my asking and saying is not to communicate 
to you that a process of questioning is now going on inside me. 
Certainly the spoken interrogative sentence can also be taken
this way, but then one is precisely not hearing the question-
ing. The questioning does not result in any shared question-
ing and self-questioning. It awakens nothing in the way of a
questioning attitude, or even a questioning disposition. For 
this consists in a willing to know. . . . Questioning is willing-to-
know. (IM 23)
M
In this passage Heidegger distinguishes a questioning state of mind, a standing-
in-the-question that at the same time wills itself forward into the opening of the 
question—a dialogic engagement in the questioning process, a listening which par-
ticipates in the questioning advance along with the questioner. This possibility of the
listener’s thinking-Being along with the questioner will be seen to be an important
element of The Forum.
Despite the fact that the question of Being never elicits an answer, the question-
ing itself—“a distinctive occurrence that we call a happening” (IM 6)—is a transforma-
tive experience. This is because “the question of Being must be asked of Being about
Being from within Being” (BT 24), and therefore is in its essence reflexive:
T
“
 The why-question challenges beings as a whole, so to speak, 
outstrips them, though never completely. But this is precisely 
how the question gains its distinction. What is asked in the 
question rebounds upon the questioning itself, for the ques-
tioning challenges beings as a whole, but does not aft er all 
wrest itself free from them. . . . It runs up against the search 
A body of scholarship has noted the aff inities between the thinking of Heidegger 
and that of Zen (e.g., Steff ney (1977), Kotoh (1987) and Storey (2012)). Heidegger’s 
attention here to the possibilities of an apparently tautological question recalls the 
use in Rinzai Zen of seemingly nonsensical koans (What is the sound of the one hand
clapping?) to eff ect a transformation in thinking.
But the locus of the transformation is not the thinking of the questioners; nor 
are the circumstances themselves altered. Rather, in the questioning itself, every 
secure foothold is lost (IM 32). In that moment, the possibility of new understand-
ings emerges. 
This power of the question of Being to undermine foundations is central to the 
process of The Forum. Erhard’s ontological inquiry is constructed upon two funda-
mental questions: What is the Being of human beings? and What is the possibility of 
Being for human beings? The first question undermines the foundation; the second
?
moves toward the creation of new understandings. Both are essential and distinct 
elements of the same questioning movement. It is this modulation of questionable-
ness into possibility that Heidegger addresses here:
“
 Our questioning just opens up the domain so that beings
can break open in such questionworthiness. . . . Yet, it is this
questioning that pushes us into the open, provided that it it-
self, as a questioning, transforms itself (as does every genuine
questioning), and casts a new space over and through every-
thing. (IM 33)
M
The situation is not changed through questioning; its possibility is transformed.
But questioning, according to translator J. Glenn Gray, was not for Heidegger a
codified procedure:


=== END OF PAGE 182 ===