=== PAGE 108 ===

94
SPEAKING BEING
WES
Yeah.
ROSS
And in the short time that I’ve been doing this, I’ve already noticed some openness come into 
the picture.
WES
Yeah, what if you lived your life totally in a story? Just consider that as a possibility. Now I 
know you can always fi nd exceptions, but you know the exception only shows the rule. So don’t
look at the exceptions. Stand in the possibility that your whole life is a story. And as you get
the distinction “story versus what happened,” you might notice that life is passing by, and that
you’re in a story about life. You’re not in life.
ROSS
There were lots of things that I took a look at last night and the major thing that I’d like to share 
with you is integrity... is probably one of my major inauthenticities, at least there’s a possibility 
for that. And I’m real quick to pick it up in somebody else. Actually as a result of yesterday I’ve
been able to look at some of the possibilities where I am not in integrity. I did an exercise with 
my daytimer, and I realized that all the things that are really important to me just didn’t get 
done. And so there’s one major commitment not kept, which I really felt to be important to me 
having accomplished.
WES
Great. Thank you.
MARSHA
Last night when I went home, I guess things were starting to get uncovered because I was so
angry. My normal thing is to be the cheerleader and get up in the morning and get things done
and extend myself so far wide that there’s nothing left for me. It is starting to wear on me physi-
cally, and what I got last night was that I am so angry, so angry: at me. It came across at fi rst last 
night, being so angry at Werner. I did the training 15 years ago, but if I saw Werner out in the 
parking lot last night I would have run him over. I was so angry. I chewed off  my sister-in-law’s 
head last night. It has never been expressed like this before, because it has been so important
to me to express, to get across, “you don’t like me and I’m going to make you like me,” and that 
has taken a tremendous amount of energy, and what is underneath that is just a lot of anger.
WES
And anything underneath that?
MARSHA
I don’t know yet. I’m just really into the anger now.
In Heidegger’s account of Being-with, we find “world” per-
vaded by relatedness. The presence of Others is embedded in all
of our everyday activities. When we are at work on a project, the 
Others for whom the project is being performed are encountered 
in the work. If we walk along the edge of a field, the field “shows
itself as belonging to such and such a person.” If I am at leisure,
the book I am reading “was bought at So-and-so’s shop and given 
by such-and-such a person, and so forth” (BT 154).
T
Heidegger is not making the obvious point that the book 
belongs to someone, but is emphasizing the degree to which the
presence of my relatedness to Others imbues my existence. Others 
whom I encounter in these objects and activities are a part of my 
world and in the same way I am a part of theirs. 
“
 By reason of this with-like Being-in-the-world, 
the world is always the one that I share with 
Others. The world of Dasein is a with-world. 
Being-in is Being-with Others. Their Being-
in-themselves within-the-world is Dasein-with. 
(BT 155)
clearing for me. Others make it possible for me to Be, a situation
that persists even when no Other is present.
“
  Even Dasein’s Being-alone is Being-with in the
world. The Other can be missing only in and for
a Being-with. Being-alone is a deficient mode of 
Being-with; its very possibility is the proof of 
this. (BT 156–157)
T
Thus Heidegger has distinguished in withness an extraordi-
nary existential possibility for human relatedness, a possibility 
which we see as an essential element of The Forum transforma-
tion. Here he specifies another aspect of this connection:
“
 Being-with is such that the disclosedness of 
the Dasein-with of Others belongs to it; this 
means that because Dasein’s Being is Being-
with, its understanding of Being already 


=== END OF PAGE 108 ===