=== PAGE 76 ===

62
SPEAKING BEING
Yankelovich Study Results  
Prior to the delivery of The Forum presented in this book, Werner Erhard and Asso-
ciates (WE&A) commissioned a study by noted social scientist Daniel Yankelovich, 
SESSION THREE INTERVAL
wherein he analyzed the results reported by graduates of the course. By the time 
the results of the study were published, circa 1991, Erhard had sold WE&A to his em-
ployees, and that company today is called Landmark. Here is the summary of those 
results and Yankelovich’s analysis.
An Analysis of The Forum and Its Benefi ts 
A Yankelovich (DYG, Inc.) Study
Summary
Internationally recognized social scientist Daniel Yankelovich surveyed more than 1300 people who completed The
Forum during a three-month period. Prior to their course, people were asked what they expected to achieve in the 
course; after their course, they were asked about the benefits they actually received.
The study explored four areas: the value of The Forum, the profile of participants, satisfaction levels after The Forum, 
and unexpected benefits that were experienced. A few of the findings include:
 
•  More than 90% of participants report practical and enduring value for their life — well worth the time and 
cost.
 
•  More than 90% of participants report a better understanding of relationships and their role in them.
 
•  Nearly every participant received unexpected benefits — ranging from achieving personal and 
professional goals.
“Several of the study’s findings surprised me quite a bit, especially the large number of participants for whom The
Forum proved to be ‘one of the most valued experiences of my life.’ This is not a sentiment that people, particularly
successful, well-educated people, express lightly. I can understand why people recommend The Forum to their 
associates, friends, and relatives.”
Daniel Yankelovich, Chairman 
DYG, Inc. (public opinion analyst)
Daniel Yankelovich, Chairman of DYG, Inc., a noted social scientist and public opinion analyst, as well as a leading
researcher of values and future trends who has been conducting these kinds of studies for more than 30 years,
did an analysis of the survey.
The following charts indicate the value reported from The Forum, the benefits most often cited as a result of their
participation, and their level of satisfaction.
Daniel Yankelovich is a
leading interpreter of trends 
shaping American society
and the global economy. He 
is the author of 10 books
and chairman/founder of
three organizations: Public Agenda; DYG, Inc.; and 
Viewpoint Learning. His pioneering work has earned
him numerous awards in the field of public opinion
research.
“ More than 7 out of 10 found the 
course to be one of their life’s 
most rewarding experiences. 
To me, this suggests that it 
addresses many of people’s 
most profound concerns — 
to improve their personal 
relationships, how to be a more 
effective person, how to think 
productively about their lives 
and goals.”


=== END OF PAGE 76 ===