=== PAGE 12 ===

x 
Praise for Speaking Being
From the Aft erword:
I regard Speaking Being as an enormously important contribution to understanding 
Heidegger and Erhard. The latter has received far too little serious academic 
attention, and this book begins to make up for that lack. Moreover, the book’s 
analysis of Heidegger’s thought is among the best that I have ever read. I commend
this book to all readers without reservation.
MICHAEL E. ZIMMERMAN, Professor Emeritus, University of Colorado, Boulder
This book is powerful, imaginative, frustrating, amusing, threatening, and 
enlightening—all at the same time. It also has the power to transform your life.
JONATHAN D. MORENO, University of Pennsylvania Professor of Ethics, 
author of Impromptu Man
The profound impact of Werner Erhard’s work on culture and society is a
manifestation of an incredible insight, the experience of being, presented in 
this book through a comparative analysis of a transcript of a 1989 Forum led by 
Erhard alongside Heidegger’s reflections on the meaning of “being there.” The
authors have drawn amazing parallels between these two extraordinary thinkers 
and have demonstrated the intersections of Heidegger’s language with Erhard’s 
ontological rhetoric of transformation. Erhard has at times described aspects of his 
method as ruthless compassion, and like all forms of compassion, evident here is a
fundamental motivating desire to alleviate the suff ering of others. 
JAMES R. DOTY, MD, Founder and Director, The Center for Compassion and Altruism
Research and Education, Professor of Neurosurgery, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, and Senior Editor of  The Oxford Handbook of Compassion Science
Speaking Being is not a book. It is a multimodal tour de force of ontological rhetoric
that hails its reader into an event and in so doing performs as an event, rather 
than what is commonly rendered as a book between two covers. Its status as an 
event is performed on every page wherein the “showing” of Being is enacted via 
its remarkable design. Kaleidoscopically, Bruce Hyde and Drew Kopp have drawn 
their readers into a dazzling display, where the participants in dialogue with Werner 
Erhard in a specific Forum in 1989 are put into dialogue with Martin Heidegger. The 
result is arguably one of the most astounding academic interventions into both 
Erhard’s methodology and Heideggerian thought. Citing David Farrell Krell, Hyde 
and Kopp remind us that “to be on a woodpath means to be in a cul-de-sac, a path
that leads nowhere and has no exit.” Speaking Being puts its readers in a dizzying 
cul-de-sac within which they may never leave, but rather transform into one of the
glittering particles of this rhetorical kaleidoscope. 
CYNTHIA HAYNES, Professor of English, Clemson University, author of  The Homesick 
Phone Book: Addressing Rhetoric in the Age of Perpetual Conflict
Theory and Practice: Ways of seeing what one claims to be the truth of some
intended object of consciousness and ways of applying this truth to one’s 
everyday existence in order to cultivate wisdom, goodness, self-realization, and 
justice. The dialogical teachings of Werner Erhard speak to the importance of this 
relationship and its ontological significance. Professors Hyde and Kopp, scholars 
of rhetoric and communication who had observed and participated in programs 
designed by Erhard, provide comprehensive and detailed conversations—what 
they term “ontological rhetoric”—that took place in Erhard’s 1989 Forum, and they 
demonstrate how Erhard and Heidegger can be read together for the benefit of 
both. This book is a major achievement in the scholarship of Erhard and Heidegger 
studies. A much-needed moment of enlightenment.
MICHAEL J. HYDE, University Distinguished Professor of Communication Ethics, Wake 
Forest University, author of Perfection: Coming to Terms with Being Human
In Speaking Being the reader discovers two original thinkers—Werner Erhard 
and Martin Heidegger—two intellects who independently reached linguistic, 
ontological, and phenomenological philosophies that illuminate each other. 
PRAISE FOR SPEAKING BEING: WERNER ERHARD, MARTIN HEIDEGGER, 
AND A NEW POSSIBILITY OF BEING HUMAN


=== END OF PAGE 12 ===