=== PAGE 478 ===

464
SPEAKING BEING
KIPP
It looked like that’s what you were saying?
WANDA
Yeah. I was sitting across the table and I got up and went around and I said “Mom, I want 
you to know that all of the accomplishments are a result of the incredible support and love 
and training that you gave me in growing up and that anything that has not worked is a 
result of my racket, I am the source of all of that. You did a great job. We all turned out.” She 
had this great big smile on her face. I said “Being able to talk about this, we may be able to 
laugh about it now.” She said, “well, maybe.” We hugged and kissed. We went our separate 
ways but then ran into each other in the bathroom. She comes up to me and whispers in my 
ear, “Wanda, I want you to know that I am so proud of you, for all your accomplishments, 
even though it was kind of hard growing up, wasn’t it?” And she started to laugh. This kind 
of communication would never have occurred if it hadn’t been for The Forum. I now have a 
relationship with my mother I’ve never had before. And now I can open up with her and even 
share the rough times as well as the wonderful times.
KIPP (to the group) 
Get these things captured in your conversation. When you’re sharing this week, you will want 
to stop, because you’re not used to sharing. But people in your life are worth this conversation.
WANDA
Something else opened up out of this conversation. One of the things I’ve been struggling 
with today is my relationship to my manager, looking at some resistance I’ve had and all of 
a sudden realizing, as I walked in, this great sense of freedom, I’ve not been willing to let my 
manager manage me, to get close enough to me to manage me and coach me. I’ve been afraid 
of him discovering all this stuff  underneath what I’m hiding, all the things that I’ve had with 
my mom that I’ve carried around with me everywhere. An incredible opening and insight! 
KIPP
Thank you!
(applause)
You need to see that you’re going to need that campaign to stamp out reasonableness in your 
life, to keep this happening in your life.
TRUMAN
Thank you for calling on me. Yesterday I had decided I wanted to share. And I didn’t get called 
on when I had my hand up, and then I was getting pissed off . I said, “Wait a minute. I’m 
black...” 
(laughter)
“...you’re supposed to call on me now. I’m ready!” I knew I had a black act but didn’t know I 
had such a chip on my shoulder. How I go about it is I get close to people and as soon as I get 


=== END OF PAGE 478 ===