=== PAGE 373 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
359
JULIE
And then I would start bitching.
ERHARD
Exactly. This is a wise woman. How does she know “then I would start bitching”? Because you 
always bitch. That’s like shooting fi sh in a barrel, that kind of a prediction. I told you about the 
Boy Scouts. It didn’t make any diff erence: “Today we’re going on a hike”; “Today we’re going 
swimming.” “Oh no!” Everything was “oh no!” So, you can’t get anything out of this. I told you 
the truth. You don’t use the truth; the truth uses you. 
SALLY
Where I keep... I guess where I keep getting stuck is I want to get it so that possibility opens up.
ERHARD
That’s an in-order-to. That’s called a “rice Christian”: That’s when you go to church to get rice. 
Getting paid. Most of you go to church in-order-to, don’t you? Sure you do. Don’t bullshit me. I 
know why you go to church. You go to church in-order-to. It’s sacrilegious. 
(asking a participant to stand up; turning back to Sally)
So you’ve just got to get rid of the in-order-tos: Whether you do or not is up to you, not up to me.
SALLY
But aren’t they just going to keep coming back?
ERHARD
Sure, they’re going to keep coming back; that’s why you’ve got to be able to dwell in that it’s 
empty and meaningless, and that it’s empty and meaningless that it’s empty and meaningless. 
Dwell in; not believe, not understand, not remember. That’s why we don’t speak in concepts in 
here, because concepts are things people remember and forget. Distinctions remember you. You 
don’t remember them; they remember you. You don’t use them; they use you. That’s why we’ve 
got this funny language. It’s the language of distinction, not the language of conceptualization. 
(to Sally)
What else?
SALLY
I’m going to sit down, because I don’t know what there is I have to do.
ERHARD
There’s nothing you have to do.
Thus nihilism consists in the avoidance of the nothing, since by
avoiding nothingness, we in fact avoid the full disclosure of Being. 
Thereby, we retain an incomplete apprehension of our possibility
as beings. Nevertheless, Heidegger does not deny that the “Nothing”
speaks something fundamentally disturbing:
The nothing itself does not attract; it is 
essentially repelling. But this repulsion is 
itself as such a parting gesture toward beings 
that are submerging as a whole. This wholly 
repelling gesture toward beings that are in 
retreat as a whole, which is the action of the 
nothing that oppresses Dasein in anxiety, is the 
essence of the nothing: nihilation. It is neither 
an annihilation of beings nor does it spring 
from a negation. Nihilation will not submit 
to calculation in terms of annihilation and 
negation. The nothing itself nihilates. (“WM” in 
BW 103
W
)
“
As Being and beings move apart, as Being withdraws into its 
always-potential concealment, the everyday meaning of beings is
ongoingly subject to nihilation. Revealing and concealing, Being
gives and nothing nihilates. This is the way of the world. And in 
the nihilating of the nothing lies the possibility of the clearing:
In the clear night of the nothing of anxiety the
original openness of beings as such arises: that 
they are beings—and not nothing.  [. . .] The 
essence of the originally nihilating nothing 
lies in this, that it brings Da-sein for the first 
time before beings as such. Only on the ground 
of the original revelation of the nothing can 
human existence approach and penetrate 
beings. (“WM” in BW 103
W
)
“


=== END OF PAGE 373 ===