=== PAGE 266 ===

252
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
So what? Each rock is diff erent from each other. So what? There’s some mythology going on 
here with this levels stuff . Tell me about levels.
BEVERLY
I don’t know about levels. I’m just hearing that people are transformed.
ERHARD
Who?
BEVERLY
Friends and those that are here...
ERHARD
Do you know what it is to be transformed? 
BEVERLY
No.
ERHARD
What it is to be transformed is to know that life is empty and meaningless—and I don’t mean 
know like hear and understand, I mean know like “be.” When you are that life is empty and 
meaningless, and you’re not making anything out of that, and you’re not doing anything with 
it, and it’s not a justifi cation, and it’s not an explanation, and there’s no prescription, and 
it doesn’t give you a prescription, then you’re transformed. When you are that life is empty 
and meaningless, and when that doesn’t give you anything—in other words, when you are 
that life is empty and meaningless and that doesn’t give you a prescription for living, and it 
doesn’t explain everything, it’ll give you light. It’ll light up everything. In that moment I got 
it, when I got that everything was in order to make it, the universe lit up. I didn’t need to 
know anything. I didn’t need to know that there was a fl oor down there holding me up. It was 
just there. So what it is to be transformed is to be that life is empty and meaningless, and to be 
that it’s empty and meaningless that it’s empty and meaningless: To be that life is not going 
to work out. And you are not someday going to have a relationship into which you put your 
heart and soul.
BEVERLY
I want life to be easy. 
ERHARD
Life is not going to be easier. You’re not going to fi nd an answer. It’s going to be just like it is. 
And you can bank on that. Life’s been around for a long time. It’s always only been like it is. 
And tomorrow it’s going to be like it is tomorrow. But you’re not living there. You live for it to be 
easy, which means you haven’t lived yet.
When you are that life is empty and mean-
ingless, and you’re not making anything out
of that, and you’re not doing anything with
it, and it’s not a justification, and it’s not an
explanation, and there’s no prescription, and
it doesn’t give you a prescription, then you’re
transformed.
“


=== END OF PAGE 266 ===