=== PAGE 394 ===

380
SPEAKING BEING
BARRY
Loads of them.
KIPP
Yes.
BARRY
And I noticed yesterday in the danger process that I took from that, that my experience of that, 
what I created was that my experience was shallow, that I was shallow, my emotional states in
both directions were. And... 
KIPP
You don’t have much range of participation for yourself?
BARRY
Yes, I inherently limit that. And the idea of terror, although I know it’s true, I didn’t even have a
direct experience of that, so I had an experience of not having an experience of that.
KIPP
In place of a reason for not having it...
BARRY
Well, up to that point, yes. And even at that point. I said “Okay, that’s a reason. And this is me, 
and this is now, and here I am, and let that be for the fi rst time.” And a big part of the story of 
the racket had been that I just don’t feel deep emotions.
KIPP
Yeah, “you know me. I just don’t feel them. Some people got ’em, some people don’t.”
BARRY
And I don’t like it but it’s safer than having them. So I got to “Okay that’s where I am.” And
kind of cooked along in it and noticed that for me my thoughts are like one of those signs that
gives you the news while you’re standing in line at the deli, that makes you dizzy when you 
watch it too long. 
KIPP
It’s not limited to you, by the way.
BARRY
And I noticed there was really no diff erence as they were coming by as they did, and by not
ascribing signifi cance to any of those thoughts and letting them be there, I just noticed that 
Erhard’s methodology of inquiry, a strategic recursive practice 
iterated in each conversation with each participant, discloses the
Being of human being beyond the everyday propositional level 
(Aletheia 3
(
). In order to accomplish this, the level of “truth” called 
Aletheia 3 must first be distinguished as itself—as the level of un-
f
committed understandings of the world: the justifications, reasons, 
explanations, and prescriptions regarding the circumstances of 
one’s life and the strategies enacted to deal with those circumstanc-
es, what in The Forum is distinguished as one’s story. It is to this 
level of truth that Erhard refers when he declares that he does not 
know the truth, as any statement taken as an assertion to be used 
in some way in-order-to already has lost any of its truth value.
In the process of distinguishing Aletheia 3 as Aletheia 3, as story, 
a further background becomes accessible as the background from 
which Aletheia 3 is disclosed. This further background is Aletheia 
2, which in the conversation of The Forum is the what happened. 
As the smokescreen of our crystallized stories dissipates, Aletheia 
2 becomes distinguished from the “truth” of Aletheia 3, the level of 
truth in which “what happened” has heretofore been held. What 
was formerly the “truth” becomes disclosed as an interpretation 
forgotten as such, an interpretation that can never reach the “what 
happened.” At this new level of truth, what happened becomes
d
opened up as what happened, and now unhinged, so to speak,
from the narrow meaning the story had framed it within. Thereby
whatever happened becomes open to be taken a multitude of ways; 
it becomes possible to see that there could be many ways to make 
“what happened” meaningful, and to see that we will never be able
to speak a single truth concerning what happened. 
What makes distinguishing Aletheia 3 and Aletheia 2 possible 
is the background of the unspoken realm of Being, Aletheia 1, the 
background of meaninglessness, of Nothing, in which our world of 
meaning arises. That is to say, the reiterative acts of distinguishing in 
language “story” and “what happened” already and always evokes 
“life is empty and meaningless, and it is empty and meaningless 
that life is empty and meaningless” as the background context, or 
clearing for meaningful presence. We cannot grasp the nature of a 


=== END OF PAGE 394 ===