=== PAGE 523 ===

Forum Day Four: Session Three 509
won’t get anything else out of The Forum that’s worth anything. What you’ll get out of your 
participation in The Forum is what you’re willing to stand for having gotten. You don’t get 
what you’re checking to see if you’ve gotten...” Let me see, what happened to me? Did my mind 
change? Did my feelings change? Did my eyesight change? Am I taller? Am I thinner? Do I 
feel better?” You can’t have any of that. If you’re willing to stand for having been empowered 
in here, you can walk out of here empowered. That’s the truth. This isn’t some airy-fairy crap. 
You are not the fi rst people I have done this work with. This is grounded on a lot of evidence. 
You paid your $625. You bust your ass for four days, you still got one evening to go. Whatever 
possibility you’re willing to stand for, whatever conversation for possibility you’re willing to 
generate, that’s what you will have gotten. Whatever possibility you’re willing to stand for, that’s 
what you can have. What you’ve done in here has given you the power to realize what you’re 
willing to stand for, not like a formula, but like a possibility in which you can act and be. Not 
like a guaranteed outcome, not like playing tennis with a three-year-old; being fully at risk, but 
being fully empowered in the face of the risk. If you don’t like risk, you don’t like life. So we’re 
up to the last thing now. Kind of. I say kind of because I never know what’s really last. Who has 
any questions?
A participant raised his hand.
RICHARD
I got what I paid my money for. What has happened in the last few months is that my projects 
have become so successful that they’re bigger than my possibility for them.
ERHARD
You hear what he said? He used up the world of possibility. The content has overwhelmed 
the context. He’s created a possibility and has related to that possibility powerfully enough, 
with the power to fulfi ll the possibility such that the content is overwhelming the context. 
You know what a hero is? Not what you think a hero is. A hero is not some dashing fi gure, an 
extraordinary person. Only ordinary people can be heroes. A hero is an ordinary person who 
dares to recognize and accept the call of a possibility bigger than themselves. Real simple. 
A hero is an ordinary person who sees, who hears, who is open to, and accepts the call of a 
possibility bigger than themselves, or herself or himself.
CECILIA
I’ve accomplished a lot and I’m an artist and illustrator. I’ve done book publishing, and so all 
this work is sixty percent solitary at least, and I’ve been having this conversation for years that 
I ought to go participate with other people. And so once and a while I go do that from “ought 
to.” I’ve done some good things but in the end I say “Jeez! That was a mistake. I wish I had done 
that by myself after all.” I mean the nurturing is kind of awful out here and I’ve been doing this 
work for years going in and out of that. And what I fi nally got these last four days was that it’s 
never going to work if I think I have to go and do it. It’s like “Gee, I already like this thing I’m 
doing: painting. It’s meaningless, so I’ll just do it!” But I also got that I had killed off  one of the 
main human attributes, which was love.


=== END OF PAGE 523 ===