=== PAGE 88 ===

74
SPEAKING BEING
You’ve got a concern for being related otherwise why would you be concerned about not being 
related? Clear? 
(pausing)
What is our access to what concerns us? Our access to what concerns us is to get at what con-
cerns us in its aftermath. After the thing happens, in hindsight, we can understand. You can’t 
even see it before it happens, can you? The already always access that human beings have to 
their concerns, the access you inherited, is something like this...
To the right of the X Erhard listed description, defi nition, and explanation.
ERHARD (continuing)
...All of which, will lead to understanding.
(adding “understanding” to the list)
And out of understanding you derive prescriptions, which gives you guidance for how to deal 
with what concerns you: ten steps to... Now, you haven’t articulated all your prescriptions, have 
you? Because a lot of your prescriptions are contained in the way you are. They’re set in you. 
You want to get this! This is one of those things you have to get. This conversation’s got to be 
there for the whole Forum.
(pausing)
So you’ve got, for example, golden rules about relations, such as “keep them happy,” “do some-
thing so they’re attached to you,” et cetera. You and I have got great prescriptions. And what 
you can predict out of that is that you and I will get better and better at that. A rat can learn 
how to negotiate a maze by finding a piece of cheese, but will choose a new tunnel if the cheese 
is moved. The difference between a human being and a rat is as follows: a human being will go 
down the tunnel with no cheese forever. You know, you’ve been doing the same shit year after 
year after year, hoping for a different outcome. What you care about is being in the right tunnel, 
regardless of whether there’s cheese or not. Doing the same thing over and over again expecting 
different results. That’s the definition of insanity.
(turning to the chalkboard and indicating the empty space to the left of the X) 
Nobody looks over here, before it happens. 
(writing the word “source”)
That’s where it’s generated, that’s where it’s created. You want to listen up to this next part. Wake 
up! Wake up! When you get to the source of something you are no longer limited by it. That, by 
the way, is a part of how this works: by getting to the source of things. 
(to Wes and Kipp)
I promise that tomorrow I will give them one answer—the answer to what those guys on moun-
taintops in Tibet are looking for.
(pausing)
We’re going to get at concerns from the source side. You don’t get description, definition, 
explanation, and prescription—you just get power. You don’t get a PhD out of here. Plato and 
Socrates killed that kind of research anyway. They tried it and found out it didn’t work. You read 
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 88 ===