=== PAGE 55 ===

Forum Day One: Session Two
41
(continuing to read)
“—and being shaken to the depths by what is unthought in his thought.”
(to the group)
It’s like what is unsaid, but there by virtue of what is said. Anything that’s going to make a dif-
ference will be unsaid. Did you ever care about speaking in such a way that what you didn’t say 
was present? Probably not. But that’s where making a diff erence lies. 
(continuing to read)
“What is unthought in a thinker’s thought is not a lack inherent in his thought. What is un-
thought is there in each case only as the un-thought. The more original the thinking, the richer
will be what is unthought in it. The unthought is the greatest gift that thinking can bestow.”
(to the group)
Listen up real good to this part!
(continuing to read)
“But to the commonplaces of sound common sense, what is unthought in any thinking always 
remains merely the incomprehensible. And to the common comprehension, the incompre-
hensible is never an occasion to stop and look at its own powers of comprehension, still less to 
notice their limitations. To the common comprehension, what is incomprehensible remains 
forever merely off ensive...”
(to the group)
Where Heidegger uses the word “off ensive,” I say “it’s bullshit.” It’s a little clearer the way I say 
it, isn’t it? It’s more rigorous the way he says it, but it’s a little easier to get the way I say it.
(continuing to read)
“—proof enough to such comprehension, which is convinced it was born comprehending
everything, that it is now being imposed upon with an untruth and a sham. The one thing of 
which sound common sense is least capable is acknowledgment and respect.”
(to the group)
The distinction I’m developing between the story and what happened is not the commonsense
understanding. Love as a concept is what you and I live with most of the time, not love as a
presence. If you uncollapse the domains, you can have presence and story. It’s not worth a 
damn if you don’t map it onto your own life. Take something you’re concerned about—and by 
concern I don’t mean something you’re worried about. Take something you care about.
As the time for the second break of the day approached, Erhard moved to  another topic.
ERHARD (continuing)
We’re now going to talk about promises. There are certain promises you must make in order 
to participate in The Forum. You didn’t know that. This is a change! An occasion for upset! It’s 
very hard to talk about promises to people who don’t know what a promise is. Who you are is a 
“ 
Did you ever care about speaking in such a
way that what you didn’t say was present?
Probably not. But that’s where making a
diff erence lies.


=== END OF PAGE 55 ===