=== PAGE 259 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 245
ERHARD
You play the game right you’ll end up with a mountain of answers. Yes. I had a mountain of 
answers. I had a trailer behind the car. I had answers from the best places. 
JACOB
Yeah, but they weren’t the answers. It seems like there should only be one.
ERHARD
Yeah there is one. I already gave it to you. There is no answer. See, you want to build a pile of 
answers and fi nd out one day that it’s a pile of shit and not a pile of answers?
JACOB
It sounds like you have all these answers that you’ve rendered meaningless.
ERHARD
They were the answers. I stood on top of that pile of answers, fi nely honed, hard earned, and 
recognized that the answer was: there is no answer. 
JACOB
It sounds like what you’re saying is that you read a book one day, maybe Freud, and that’s what 
happened, but you kept it and made it mean something out of it.
ERHARD
Not something out of it, I made the answer out of it, and I had a mountain of answers. And 
look, I could do you real easy. “I could look at it this way and that way, and there’s no one real 
way to look at it—the way to look at it—there are many ways to look at it.” This week, this 
year, this era of your life: the answer. Not “the answer is that there isn’t any answer, there are 
many answers.” That’s an answer. You get that that’s an answer?
JACOB
Yeah.
ERHARD
Yeah, but if you’ve got an answer, then that isn’t the answer: The answer is there isn’t any 
answer. And if you turn that into an answer, that isn’t it either.
JACOB
That’s a vicious circle. 
ERHARD
That’s right. This whole thing is a vicious circle. And the only way to get to break the vicious 
circle is that there isn’t any answer, and that life isn’t going to turn out, it isn’t going to work 
out, and someday isn’t going to turn out so that you can play your aces.
Heidegger on Thinking the Same
Every thinker thinks one only thought. Here, 
too, thinking diff ers essentially from science. 
The researcher needs constantly new discov-
eries and inspirations, else science will bog 
down and fall into error. The thinker needs one 
thought only. And for the thinker the diff iculty 
is to hold fast to this one only thought as the 
one and only thing that he must think; to think 
this One as the Same; and to tell of this Same 
in a fitting manner. But we speak of the Same 
in the manner that befits it only if we always 
say the same about it, in such a way that we 
ourselves are claimed by the Self-same. The 
limitlessness of the Same is the sharpest limit set 
to thinking. (WCT 50, emphasis added)
“
It is a job of The Forum leader to see that the conversation of The 
Forum always speaks the Same. ■


=== END OF PAGE 259 ===