=== PAGE 138 ===

124
SPEAKING BEING
THEODORE
How do you distinguish something without defi ning it?
ERHARD
Yeah. We’re going to get to that. 
THEODORE
I got something about looking good. In being here I want this to be successful, and one of my 
fears is not looking good, going home and seeing that nothing happened.
ERHARD
You’re not free and that will keep something from happening. So when you’re willing to be with 
one of the possible outcomes–that nothing will happen–then you’re in a place where something
can happen to you. You see how strange that sounds? By being willing to have nothing happen
you are in a place where something can happen. Thanks.
(Theodore sits down)
Distinction is an operation in language. In the normal course of events, you and I think of 
language as something we use to report on something. Language is for talking
t
about. It’s for
abouting. Describing and explaining are operations in language called reporting. We think that 
there’s something out there that has a particular way it is, and I make a representation of it. And 
if my representation is accurate, I can make it work. But now we’re distinguishing a new kind 
of operation in language. It’s an operation in language called generating. It’s as though I said
“chair” and a chair came out of my mouth. Watch. You’re going to see this thing fall out of my 
mouth as I say it: I promise. When I said “promise,” what fell out of my mouth was a promise. 
When I say “I promise,” that’s a promise, isn’t it? What falls out of my mouth when I say “I 
promise”? A promise. When I say “I promise,” a promise falls out of my mouth. All I want you to 
see is there’s possibility in language that didn’t occur to you, because you hadn’t distinguished 
language as a generative act. So we’re sneaking up on the answer to the question: what is the
operation by which one distinguishes? Not an operation in language like reporting, but creating.
Listen up. Apes are not stupid. But no ape has ever picked up a stick along a path because he
needed to knock down bananas. Why not? Because apes live in a world with no possibility; be-
cause they live without language. And I don’t mean laboratory apes. Laboratory apes are tainted 
with language.
LOUISE
What about the hundredth monkey?
ERHARD
It’s totally false, that example. It’s bullshit, and demonstrated to be so. The author has acknowl-
edged that he wrote that to make a point. Lyall-Watson recanted that as scientifi c evidence. I
want to stop hearing that crap about the hundredth monkey.
That is, idea-forming shapes us, and thus “the essence of 
idea-forming is probably the first thing that must be put into 
the language of thinking” (WCT 55). This is the first step in the
T
appropriation of our current way of thinking: the recognition
and taking-over of that thinking, which is necessary before we 
can attain a possibility beyond it.
This aspect of Heidegger’s thinking has been central through-
out its evolution, emerging in various iterations, from the reso-
luteness of Dasein in Being and Time to the gentler releasement 
of his later work. It is also a central element in Werner Erhard’s
methodology. Both men posit the paradoxical idea that, rather 
than resisting those aspects of ourselves that we see as in some
way problematic, we let them be, and own them, and thereby gain
a freedom to think beyond them. The idea is fundamental to the 
transformation that both men are working to make available. ■
One might say, for instance: “I think it will 
snow tonight.” But he who speaks that way is
not thinking, he just has views on something.
We must be very careful, however, not to 
regard this “viewing” as insignificant. All our 
daily life and all we do moves within what we 
have in view, and necessarily so. (WCT 32)
“


=== END OF PAGE 138 ===