=== PAGE 488 ===

474
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
Do you play tennis?
SHERYL
Sometimes.
ERHARD
Are there people who are better than you at tennis?
SHERYL
Yes.
ERHARD
How do you explain their being better?
SHERYL
They play more.
ERHARD
And by playing more what do you mean? It’s not just a matter of playing more, it’s that they 
have something inside themselves...
SHERYL
They’ve developed the skill...
ERHARD
Yeah, they’ve developed the skill. They have the experience, but they also carry that around 
inside themselves, don’t they?
SHERYL
Yes.
ERHARD
In other words, if they played every day but it didn’t change their insides, they wouldn’t be 
better than you are, would they?
SHERYL
Yes, that’s true.
ERHARD
You and I are that the guy who can play tennis better than you or I might be able to do, can do 
so because of something inside of him or her. You get the point?
In the terminology of Heidegger’s Being and Time, the pre-Socratic 
understanding of their experience was pre-ontological (BT 32). 
In Guignon’s words, they never thematized the insight of their 
experience (A Companion to Heidegger’s Introduction to Metaphysics. 
37). If they had, says Heidegger, the world would undoubtedly be 
quite diff erent:
Language would be saying. Language would
be the gathering letting-lie-before of what is
present in its presencing. [. . .] Nothing less 
than this: the Greeks would have thought the
essence of language directly from the essence
of Being. . . . (EGT 77)
“
But human thinking took a diff erent path, and “Greek philosophy 
never returned to this ground of Being.” 
Instead, the focus shift ed to “the foreground of that which comes 
to presence . . .” (IM 66, emphasis added). With this shift , Western 
thinking began its evolution toward the metaphysical model—what 
Guignon calls a “substance ontology” (A Companion to Heidegger’s 
Introduction to Metaphysics. 36). Being as the happening of 
unconcealment was forgotten, and the ground of reality became the 
constant presence of what has been unconcealed—beings as present-
to-hand substance: beings as things.
In his reading of the Anaximander fragment—the oldest 
existing fragment of Western thinking—Heidegger finds a further 
clue to this evolution of Western thinking into the metaphysical 
tradition. The etymological path by which he arrives at this 
conclusion is complex and undoubtedly idiosyncratic, but we 
quote the passage at length because it resonates at a number of 
points with the languaging of Werner Erhard.
From early on [in the thinking of the Greeks] it
seems as though presencing and what is pres-
ent were each something for itself. Presencing
itself unnoticeably becomes something pres-
ent. Represented in the manner of something
present, it is elevated above whatever else is
“


=== END OF PAGE 488 ===