=== PAGE 214 ===

200
SPEAKING BEING
JAKE
I was a shit to my mom when I was nine years old. Our relationship has been the same, and so I 
apologized to her. I told her I was here and she thought that was neat. She was glad to hear that. 
I said “let’s not be this anymore.” I told her that I accept her. She drives me nuts, but I want a 
relationship with her.
WES
She doesn’t drive you nuts. You can have an interpretation that your mother drives you nuts. 
I know that one very well. When I was thirty-fi ve I visited my mother in Miami and she told 
me what time she thought I should be home. Drove me nuts. If it was raining out, she would 
suggest clothes to wear. Drove me nuts: until I got off  it and got how much of a creep I was. I 
got off  it and I allowed my mother to mother me. Because that’s what mothers do. That’s their 
job. What did you expect your mother to do? Business deals with you? 
JAKE
I’ve got a complex network of anxiety of reactionary being. When I’m that way it destroys what 
we can’t have between each other. We don’t have a connection. I told her I loved her and she 
said something to me. I realized she knew more of what’s going on than I thought. She said that 
she would give me the space to be me. She knows how crazy she is. And she said she was going 
to stop doing that with me.
WES (to another participant taking a microphone)
This is about completing with your parents?
ESME
My twin sister. I saw how I make her wrong. I told her that I loved her, that I had taken things 
out on her instead of “you,” which I mean everyone.
WES
There’s a lot more love going on around you than most people are willing to experience. 
ESME
I completed with my sister about our competition for our dead father’s love. But I still was 
having an issue with “you” when I overheard a bunch of people asking a woman from Uganda 
really stupid questions. I realized she wasn’t upset about stupid questions, and that I don’t have 
to be. I can be an expert about being a twin. 
WES 
We’ve got to move on. But you have a standing invitation to keep getting complete with people 
in your life. One of the commitments of The Forum is to unconceal the being of human 
beings—what’s giving you who you are. What was there before you were born? If you’re a man 
or a woman, you were born into what it is to be one. If you’re trying to carve out a new version, 
you’re doing it against that already always background. The being of human being was decided 
at a party you weren’t invited to and you had to fi t into that once you showed up. One of the 
Danger: Attunements and Moods
In Heidegger’s account of human existence, Dasein—human 
being—is always being some way. Being-in-the-world, that is, is 
always a particular way of being. Heidegger uses two terms for 
this condition—Befindlichkeit, which is translated as state-of-mind
(Dreyfus translates this as aff ectedness), and Bestimmung, translated 
as attunement. Both terms will be found in passages quoted in this 
book, but we will focus on the latter term, “attunement,” since it 
avoids psychological implications embedded in “state-of-mind,” 
and more powerfully suggests the totality of the situation: I am 
always attuned to the world in some way, and my attunement at 
any moment determines what things in the world mean to me—how 
much and in what way they “matter.”
But my options for ways of being attuned to the world have 
been made available to me in my thrownness—that is, they are 
limited to a certain range of opportunities for understanding, a 
context of meaning into which I have been thrown, willy-nilly, 
and over which I have no control (see the “Thrownness” sidebar 
in Session Three of Day Two). The nature and source of these 
limits are invisible to me; like water to a fish, this background is 
so enveloping, so constitutive of everything, that I cannot see it. I 
simply experience its strictures in my life, and, occasionally, have 
the vague sense that there might be something more. In another of 
Erhard’s expressions, my thrownness lies in the realm of what we 
don’t know that we don’t know, and is therefore beyond our grasp. 
But it colors everything.
Further, there is something primordially threatening about the 
nature of this context, a danger that leads us to avoid confronting 
it (though we don’t know that this is what we are doing), 
despite our sense that more might be possible in life. Dasein, 
at some level, recognizes that it does not want to face up to the 
inescapability of its limits—what Heidegger calls “the facticity of 
its being delivered over” (BT 174). To avoid this confrontation, we 
lose ourselves in the distractions of the they-self—averageness, 
curiosity, ambiguity, and the chatter of the public realm. In certain 
states of mind, a situation may occur for us with a heightened 
intensity, but its nature remains obscured: an attunement is the 
kind of Being in which 


=== END OF PAGE 214 ===