=== PAGE 134 ===

120
SPEAKING BEING
Erhard was on the platform as the second session began at 1:15 pm.
ERHARD
So I’m willing to tell you The Answer now. You’re not going to like the answer. What you get
after sitting on a mountaintop for twenty years—what you get is—the answer is that there
isn’t any answer: and that is The Answer. Somewhere on the third day that will fall into place
for you. What we want to do is distinguish a racket. The problem is that you don’t know what 
distinguishing is. First we need to distinguish distinction. When you and I distinguish some-
thing, it’s not the same as defi ning it. Distinguishing and defi ning are two diff erent operations.
And distinguishing is not describing. When you distinguish something you are not describing it.
What is it that defi ning does? When you defi ne something, what does that do for you?
PARTICIPANT
You set up a boundary, or a limit.
ERHARD
Right on. When you defi ne something, what you do is to take a mass of undefi ned stuff , and
you draw a kind of line that divides what you’re defi ning from what you’re not defi ning. Also, 
defi ning indicates something with reference to something else, something you’re not familiar 
with in relation to something you are familiar with. Distinguishing doesn’t work like that.
Defi ning objectifi es something. When you defi ne something you turn it into an object. Defi ning 
gives it a form, a location in space and time, turns it into a thing. And we’re all comfortable with
things. When you distinguish you don’t turn it into an object. And that’s why distinguishing
makes people uncomfortable. Because while it exists by virtue of being distinguished, it doesn’t
exist as a thing. 
(pausing)
So we’re going to take a little bit of a look at what distinguishing might be. Defi ning identifi es; 
distinguishing sets up a realm. You don’t need to understand that yet. Just have it like, “He says
distinguishing sets up a realm.” 2, and 9, and 74 are numbers. But number is not itself a num-
r
ber. It’s a realm in which numbers can happen. Number distinguishes a realm of possibility.
Erhard called on a participant to stand up.
ERHARD (to participant)t
How many loops in one square foot of rug?
 PARTICIPANT
A couple thousand.
ERHARD
You know exactly how many: a lot. If I take one loop away, how many are there? The exact same
number. The number is called a lot. We can’t distinguish between that number and that number 
minus one. A lot minus one is still a lot. You have no way to see the diff erence between a lot and
FORUM DAY TWO: 
SESSION TWO


=== END OF PAGE 134 ===