=== PAGE 520 ===

506
SPEAKING BEING
like suff ering. That’s a psychiatric problem called masochism. Go to a psychiatrist to get that 
handled. We don’t handle that in here. But most of you get up because you like suff ering. I 
mean, you must like suff ering: That’s what you do. And you know you’re going to do it. No, 
what gets you up is hoping, hoping you’re going to make it, hoping it’s all going to work out, 
hoping it’s somehow going to be diff erent, hoping you’re going to get the answer. What’s that?
(in response to a participant calling out, Erhard repeats)
Yeah. You suff er hoping. Exactly. Hoping keeps you suff ering. Why would you bother getting up 
in the morning if you know what it’s going to be like?
(walking back to the chalkboard to indicate the “possibility” circle)
At any rate, you’ve got something to say here. You’ve got nothing to say about experience—you 
can only report on it more or less accurately. 
(indicating the “story” circle)
And you’re limited to what you say here reporting on experience. This is reporting on that.
(indicating the “possibility” circle)
Here you are free. Now, there’s one little catch. A pipe dream is not a possibility. Pipe dreams 
and possibility are not the same thing. Possibility is the future. You could say that the past could 
have possibly been like this. But in the future, we might learn that the past was really diff erent 
than what we thought. Possibility is always future. It’s got that kind of temporality: future. And 
you’re going to have pipe dreams and call them possibility. I’ll tell you how to tell the diff erence 
between a pipe dream and possibility. There is no future, which will ever be realized, which is 
not an extension of the past when it happens. All futures will be an extension of the past. There 
are no discontinuous futures. Not in your lifetime, because all futures, when realized, have a 
continuity with the past. There is nothing that ever happened that was inconsistent with the 
past. If necessary, the past is rewritten. On the basis of Columbus and Einstein, the past was 
rewritten. See, it was true the world was fl at, until someone did something inconsistent with 
that. Then we said, oh, it wasn’t fl at. How the hell do you know it wasn’t fl at? The point is that 
you’re free to create possibilities for your life and you want to ground those possibilities by 
bringing the possibility back into the present. Like standing in the future to create a future. And 
then you tease it back to the present, so there’s a structure to fulfi ll that possibility. But that’s too 
technical, and we don’t have the time to go into all the technicalities tonight. All I’m going to 
tell you is this: If you live with possibility, you live with both risk and power. None of this works; 
it’s only empowering. None of this is the answer, and it is empowering. Life is authentically 
risky. You got the wrong idea about life. You think life is about reducing the risk with fi nding the 
answers. You want to cheat. If you want to reduce the risk, play tennis with three-year-olds. You 
win all the time. Makes you feel great. 
(laughter)
If winning all the time makes you feel great then you like playing tennis with three-year-olds. 
Winning doesn’t make people feel great. Being powerful and able and playing and dancing, 
that makes people feel great. And to do that you’ve got to have power, and that’s what we’re 
ERHARD (continuing)
All I’m going to tell you is this: If you live with
possibility, you live with both risk and power. 
None of this works; it’s only empowering. None 
of this is the answer, and it is empowering. Life 
is authentically risky.
“


=== END OF PAGE 520 ===