=== PAGE 525 ===

Forum Day Four: Session Three 511
HENRY
My promise is that the twenty-fi ve year racket that I’ve lived—I’m giving that up and am now 
living out the distinction ecological health. I appreciate you very much, and I love you all.
ERHARD
Okay good. Thank you.
ZELDA
What do you mean: to stand for? 
ERHARD
Declare the possibility of...; live out of the possibility of...; have as the context for living, the 
possibility of...; Generate a conversation for...; create a context for...
ZELDA
I understand that. It says to me to be generous.
ERHARD
I’m not asking you to be generous. You will be generous if you do that. I’m not asking you to be 
generous, because that would mean for you to have a quality inside yourself called generous. 
If you act on the off er to have anything out of The Forum you are willing to stand for having 
gotten... if you act on the off er you will be being generous. Generosity arises in an act of being. 
It’s not a property inside of people that gets expressed in their actions. You get that?
ZELDA
Yes. Thank you.
(applause)
WALT
I say I’m not confused about what you’ve given us in the last hour, but it is a lot to hold.
ERHARD
Yes, precisely, so listen up here. This is good. I read something to you three days ago and I want 
you to hear it again. See if it occurs for you diff erently than it did then.
Here, he read again the passage from the Heidegger/Japanese dialogue in Heidegger’s On the Way to 
Language.
ERHARD (reading)
“We Japanese do not think it strange if a dialogue leaves undefi ned what is really intended, or 
even restores it back to the keeping of the undefi nable.” ... “That is part of every dialogue that 
has turned out well among thinking beings. As if of its own accord it can take care that that 
undefi nable something not only does not slip away, but displays its gathering power ever more 
Stanley Kubrick’s film 2001, when he asked whether he is happy: 
“I’m using all my capacities to the maximum. What more could a 
rational entity want?” This, says Dreyfus, is “a brilliant expression 
of what anyone would say who is in touch with our current 
understanding of Being.”
Of particular relevance is Dreyfus’ observation that “the 
human potential movement perfectly expresses this technological 
understanding of Being” (“Gaining”). Werner Erhard’s work, which 
Peter Marin has called “the logical extension of the whole human 
potential movement” (“The New Narcissism,” Harper’s Magazine, 
October 1975, 47), may therefore be considered as a representative 
manifestation of our current technological understanding of 
Being, especially to the degree that this logical extension is 
itself, paradoxically, a denial of the so-called human potential 
movement. This point is central to the conclusion we are moving 
toward here.
The situation: humans are always subjected to understandings 
of Being, and to the way they play themselves out over time. In 
Dreyfus’ words, “We don’t produce the clearing; The clearing 
produces us” (“Gaining”). Every historical epoch is characterized 
by a particular mode of unconcealment, a particular way in which 
Being shows itself, so that in each epoch humans are given a 
particular way to be. Through this epochal self-revealing, this 
giving of itself to humans, Being manifests its nature; and beings 
show up being that way, “the way they wound up being,” as Erhard 
might say more recently. 
But as Western thought has evolved over time, human beings 
have lost their awareness of Being, if ever they have even been 
aware of Being. Now, of the giver-giving-given event that is Being’s 
gift , we see only the given, and we see it only as it is represented by 
beings. Being “withdraws in favor of the gift  which It gives” (OTB 8). 
When a giver withdraws and holds itself back, and gives only 
its gift , that giving is appropriately called sending (OTB 8). The 
gift  is given, but the sender, crucially, is not present. So while an 
experience of Being is no longer available, the sending continues 
to shape human existence in every age. This is the process which 
Heidegger calls the destining of Being, and from this destining 


=== END OF PAGE 525 ===