=== PAGE 180 ===

166
SPEAKING BEING
FORUM DAY TWO: SESSION FOUR
The Forum resumed at 9:10 pm, following the dinner break. Kipp was on the
platform with Erhard, and asked for questions in response to the break assignment
to have a conversation about the seminar program. After Kipp fi elded these ques-
tions, Erhard came forward.
ERHARD
I know it’s possible to turn this into another thing you’ve done in your life.
In independent surveys, most people say it was the most, or a very, signifi -
cant experience in their life. The way you determine what’s possible is by the
conversation that you are. This was not designed as another seminar. This was 
not designed to help you get better. This was not designed to improve you. We
could have done that with a lot less time and eff ort. You want to be here for 
something extraordinary. You want to be here for the possibility that this could 
make the diff erence in your life. This was designed to make the diff erence in 
your life. Now with regard to this seminar business: See, I don’t like this con-
versation. What is so strange about doing something about who you are reg-
ularly? I go to the dentist regularly, do something for my teeth regularly. This
is extraordinary stuff . If what happened in this room before the break didn’t
move you, didn’t touch you... if that didn’t turn you on, this is not a great thing 
for you to do. But if this speaks to you, this is a very appropriate place for you. 
So we’re going to talk to you about the seminar program. You have the power
to decline. This is a very easy conversation to pay attention to if you’re clear 
about the fact that you’ve got the power to decline.
During this conversation Erhard came down from the platform and moved around
among the group.
(continuing)
How many of you have had some major impact in your life out of the two days
so far?
A majority of the participants stood. 
(continuing)
This is a part of The Forum. You know that form you fi lled out this morning?
That’s a part of The Forum.
(indicating Kipp)
He’s not like you. He’s not hanging out. Kipp is up to something. It looks 
like we’re doing one Forum. We’re really doing fi ve hundred diff erent Fo-
rums because each person brings something diff erent to it. You don’t know 
what you are. You only know what you were. If you give yourself a future
based on what you were, that’s not very powerful, is it?  We want to give you
the power to create a future not given to you by the past.
PARTICIPANT
Isn’t that artifi cial?
ERHARD
Yes, in a certain sense it’s artifi cial, in that you can’t predict it. But in a certain 
sense isn’t everything that’s created artifi cial? I have a little rule in my relation-
ships. Don’t ever do anything you don’t want to do. I’ve got another rule: ride 
the horse in the direction it’s going. They’re the same rule.
(loudly)
Because nobody ever does anything they don’t want to do... “I don’t want to be
here” is a racket. Did you ever see Karate Kid?  That was coaching. That’s what
?
happens in seminars.
At this point Wes moved forward on the platform. Erhard remained in the room, 
strolling around in the aisles.
WES
We’re going to take a deeper look at the distinction racket. You have to be lis-
tening from the question, what is the distinction racket and what is my racket? 
Try on the possibility that your racket is both something put out there and
something covering up.
ERHARD
You don’t need to see what happened... Here’s all that’s important: my racket
is, the payoff  is, the cost is. Wes is going through the other stuff  with people
so you can see more of the racket that underlies that. But you don’t gotta get
what happened in order to gain some freedom from your racket.
(pausing
(
)
Lots of people are trying to get better. And it’s a racket. If you’re trying to get
better, it’s all right if you don’t produce results. There are certain relationships 
between payoff s and costs. Avoiding responsibility and stifl ed self-expression
are almost invariably related.
WES
Selfi sh lives in your mouth. Or, more rigorously, in your conversation... Selfi sh 
is in your listening... That’s the location of your racket. Your racket is a conver-
sation. The point of the conversation is on the board (i.e., racket payoff s). It’s 


=== END OF PAGE 180 ===