=== PAGE 541 ===

Forum Day Four: Session Three 527
Kipp proceeded to review the logistics and procedure of the evening, including a play-by-play 
recounting of what will happen, including having an opportunity to share during the evening 
session, right at the beginning, when The Forum Leader presents the opportunity to share.
KIPP (continuing)
...and I invite you to not hold back, to create for yourself and the people that you have there, 
having possibility in your life and in their lives... Now, I’m going to tell you everything you 
need to know to share The Forum eff ectively and have your friends and family do The Forum. 
It’s very simple and it’s very straightforward. So if you’re committed to sharing The Forum 
and having people at your Forum Evening Session and having them register, the fi rst thing 
is this: Do not sell The Forum. Simply be straight with the people in your lives. Say whatever 
The Forum is for you. Whether you think it’s great or whether you’re not sure, whether you’re 
confused, or if you think it was stupid, or whether you are totally enthusiastic with a thousand 
breakthroughs. Whatever it truly is for you, authentically share that. Don’t sell The Forum. 
Because what people listen to is not what you say. People listen to who you are being. The 
second thing is, it serves the people who you are bringing for them to know there will be an 
opportunity for them to register, so they should bring their schedules... and they should bring 
money with them. Be straight with people. That’s what works. The last thing is this: When you 
walk out of here and share The Forum, that is, share your self, you will be speaking into the 
listening of the world. You already know what that listening is. When you share yourself, people 
will think it’s a racket, it’s a cult... When you speak, people will have those thoughts. Everybody 
clear? People will have those thoughts.
(Kipp grabs a tissue and holds it up; laughter)
Don’t get stuck with their thoughts. Don’t get stuck with your own. What there is to do is 
simple. Okay?
Kipp grabbed the dictionary from a table on the platform, and he asked a participant to stand up on 
the stage with him.
KIPP (addressing the participant)
When sharing The Forum with anyone, what’s the worst thing they could say to you?
ED
“I think you’re stupid and weird.”
KIPP
So this dictionary represents “I think you’re stupid and weird.” Resist it.
Kipp light-heartedly attacks Ed over and over with the dictionary repeating “I think you’re stupid 
and weird” with each attack, and Ed defl ects each attack with upraised hands.
KIPP (to the group)
For the most part that’s what you call communication.


=== END OF PAGE 541 ===