=== PAGE 354 ===

340
SPEAKING BEING
on, because I’m playing on your fi eld and you’re going to win. There’s no question about that, 
even if I’m as good as you are. By last night I didn’t have the need to take you on anymore. I 
didn’t care if I took you on. And I didn’t care if I won. And I didn’t care if I lost if I took you on. 
It didn’t make any diff erence. So that was really good. So, back to the young person I am trying 
to get to. I don’t know why: There’s some reason I’m trying to get to this person and I don’t 
understand what that is. Somebody came up to me last night after I fi nished and said that must 
have really been hard to do. Last night was not hard to do. Today is hard to do. 
ERHARD
Stingy is easy. Magnanimous is not easy.
KEVIN
So, to this person, I came in here and I’m a person who has spent their whole life—I’m 56 years 
old—I spent my whole life, I don’t think, ever trying to look into my head, until just recently, 
and so I’m new at this game. I’m not a head looker. I’ve been busy being successful and all that 
and so I’m looking at this young person. Not a real young person. Just getting a little beyond 
young, but really defi ant, really pissed off  about something. I wanted to say to that person “Hey 
look boy, I’m the biggest case of all,” which I’m sure a lot of you are saying “No, I am.” But I 
know I am the biggest case of all, that came into here thinking  “Boy, I’m going to have to put 
up with a lot of bullshit,” but I think there must be something to this thing, and I’m clever 
enough that I can get around the bullshit, and sort that out, do it my way and control it, and fi g-
ure out whether there was really anything good in this and I’ll extract out what I think is good 
in this and I’ll let the bullshit slide by my ear. And the reason that I think I’m able to get some-
thing out of this: I’m lucky I guess. I came into this, well, the only way I can get something out 
of this is if I just really say “okay, push those thoughts out of your mind, and get something out 
of this. I’m gonna get something out of this. I’m going to get into this.” And I’ve really gotten 
into it, and last night was a hell of a night, because I went to bed and it was a long time before I 
went to sleep, thinking. My head was exploding going through all these things, my assignment 
and everything else, and boy, did I make progress. I’m not sure... Something happened, I’ve 
had so many breakthroughs...
Let’s get clear. It’s not progress, it’s dropping stuff .
KEVIN
I’ve dropped a load they must have heard...
(laughter)
At least four or fi ve fl oors down.
ERHARD
That’s generous Kevin. That’s generous. That’s generosity. Sharing “winning” is generosity.
KEVIN (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 354 ===