=== PAGE 16 ===

2
SPEAKING BEING
people have graduated from The Forum, either the four-day Forum of Erhard’s time 
through 1991, or the current iteration of the course, the three-day Landmark
Forum (www.landmarkworldwide.com).1
Erhard’s influence on the culture has made itself felt in another way as well. 
During the 1970s, when it sometimes seemed that every fifth person in San Francis-
co was an est graduate, you could generally detect that element of the population
t
by their use of the program’s language, which in casual use began to be heard as
jargon. Erhard’s use of this terminology, however, was highly purposive, and many
of those words and phrases made their way into the public sphere, some to last-
ing effect. An example has been the shift in the popular understanding of the term 
sharing. Before est, people shared a cookie or a bench in the park; what was shared
was divided, and in the process one’s own share was inevitably diminished. But
in the est Training, 
g participants shared their experience, and through sharing, that 
experience was augmented. To share, in the world of est, was to communicate in
such a way that one’s self and not merely one’s story was made available, leaving the
f
other touched rather than merely informed. This meaning of the word, we assert, is 
now common in our culture. Likewise, the term coaching, borrowed by Erhard from
the sports arena in the early eighties to identify the style of his pedagogy, has since
become ubiquitous in the field of management, human resources, and executive 
coaching. And the ubiquitous Mastercard catchphrase, “Master the possibilities,”
was born in the mind of an est graduate for whom the term
t
possibility had acquired
a new level of meaning; however, through overuse in the media, this new level of 
meaning has diminished.
The move to discontinue the Training in 1985 and replace it with The Forum 
arose from Erhard’s perception of a shift in the culture’s way of responding to the 
Training; he wanted to design a course that was responsive to that shift. At this 
point, while Erhard’s success during those years had been greeted by considerable 
media curiosity, scholarly interest was moderate. Several studies of the est Training
t
attempted to measure its effects using a psychological model; while he considered
such efforts valuable, Erhard has asserted that this approach is inappropriate for 
analysis of his work. His work, he says, is not psychological but ontological: his 
concern is the being of human beings (“Heart of the Matter” 1984). He has also 
consistently emphasized that the focus of his work is the development of the lan-
guage in which it is articulated. Yet no significant scholarly work dealing either with
Erhard’s language use, or with the nature of an ontological methodology, has been 
published, even in the academic fields most likely to be deeply concerned with
such matters—rhetoric and writing studies, business management, philosophy, and 
communication studies. This book aims to begin to correct that omission.
Before proceeding, we offer this statement of authorial stance: The authors
have engaged extensively, both as participants and as scholars, in numerous pro-
grams designed by Werner Erhard. The senior author took the est Training for the
t
first time in 1973, and we have each participated a number of times in The Forum, 
both during Erhard’s tenure in the organization and following his departure. Our 
doctoral dissertations (University of Southern California, 1990; University of Arizona,
2008) consisted of rhetorical and philosophical analyses of The Forum. Based upon
this considerable study and experience, our assessment of Erhard’s work is un-
equivocal: we have found this work to be pedagogically effective and intellectually 
significant in all of its historical iterations. Our intention in this book is to stimulate
its serious consideration by the academic community, as well as by others in the
culture at large.
It is also important to note that our approach as participant observers has
its limits. To carry out the design of the book, we have precluded a number of 
approaches that readers may wish to see addressed, and we beg those readers to 
indulge us. Before any significant and critical treatments could be viable, or even 
possible, from a number of disciplines—including philosophy, communication stud-
ies, rhetorical criticism, and so on—the phenomenon must be first made available. 
We present this book as a way into the phenomenon in question, and consequently,
we invite members from a range of academic disciplines to enter the conversation
we are seeking to initiate.
Evolution 
This is an historical document. It presents an account of one moment—albeit a sig-
nificant one—in an ongoing project for the development of human being. The first 
iteration of this project, the est Training, was designed to communicate to people
t
living in the cultural environment of the 1970s. As Erhard saw it, considerable logis-
tical rigor was required for the course to achieve its purpose, and thus the format
included demands for which est soon became notorious, including lengthy sessions
t
1 Landmark describes The Landmark Forum as a personal and professional development program,
based on the discipline of applied ontology and phenomenology. Erhard created the work in the
early 1970s and continued its development until in 1991 Landmark took over its ongoing devel-
opment as expressed in The Landmark Forum and other Landmark programs. As of the writing of 
this book, the material and structure of The Forum have continued to be developed during three 
decades since the 1989 Forum presented in this book. The Landmark Forum of today (circa 2019) 
is less time (three days and an evening and each day ends by 10:00 pm), it incorporates the use of 
PowerPoint displays and videos that enhance the participants’ experience of and access to what is
being presented, and there is no use of profanity on the part of the program leaders.


=== END OF PAGE 16 ===