=== PAGE 258 ===

244
SPEAKING BEING
JACOB
Okay.
ERHARD
You’re up there and this is The Forum. It’s not like I picked you out. Why am I staying in this 
conversation with you? The Forum is for you and I to engage in this until what you’re not 
saying and what I’m not saying is there for you to hear. There’s something to hear that neither 
of us is going to say. That’s the name of this game. It’s underneath all that wisdom you got. I’m 
not denigrating your wisdom. Your wisdom’s pretty good. I like it. And if we were out having a 
drink I would listen to it and discuss it. I would. I like that stuff  too. But that’s not The Forum. 
The Forum is to get what’s underneath that. And what there is to get here is that it’s empty and 
meaningless. Now you’re a pretty sharp guy and you got some of that. But now you’re going to 
turn that into a philosophy. Don’t do that. Just get it. It’s empty and meaningless, and it’s empty 
and meaningless that it’s empty and meaningless. And life is not going to turn out.
JACOB
It’s the part that it is empty and meaningless that gets me, because that has a little bit of 
meaning to it. 
ERHARD
No. It has no meaning to it. That’s why I said it is empty and meaningless that it is empty and... 
JACOB
I guess it was because I was thinking “because.”
ERHARD
Beautiful. Exactly. You got it. You can’t get “because” in there at all. Zero. If you add “because,” 
you’re above zero. At zero it’s just empty and meaningless and it’s empty and meaningless that 
it’s empty and meaningless. It’s not your life that’s empty and meaningless. It’s a rainstorm. Life 
is empty and meaningless and you showed up in that, and got wet in it. It’s not your particular 
little crappy life that’s empty and meaningless. It’s that life is empty and meaningless. That’s 
what we showed up in.
Erhard stood close to Jacob and spoke intimately.
ERHARD
Jacob, you want to listen up here. Some people I don’t identify with. I can get them because I’m 
trained to get them. I can identify with you. And you’re sharp enough to fuck yourself. I know 
you can do it because I did it. I got the answers very early, and I developed them really well, but 
I got them as answers.
JACOB
Yes, I’ve got this bucket of answers I carry around with me. 
The Forum is for you and I to engage in this
until what you’re not saying and what I’m not
saying is there for you to hear. There’s some-
thing to hear that neither of us is going to say.
That’s the name of this game.
“


=== END OF PAGE 258 ===