=== PAGE 137 ===

 
 
Forum Day Two: Session Two 
123
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader
(
)r
So occurrence can be constitutive of distinguishing?
ERHARD
No. The other way around and constitutive is not the right word. Allowed by is better. Occur-
ring is allowed by the distinction in which it occurs. The occurring is possible by virtue of the
domain of possibility which you have established. For instance, the photographic image doesn’t 
occur in the brain or in the eyes. Those were operational before. The occurring happens in a 
“house called possibility.” Possibility is a product of an operation called distinguishing.
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader
(
)r
Thank you.
ANOTHER PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 2
(
)
I have a sense that there’s an architecture, or whatever word you want to use, so that in order 
to objectify something, you have to be able to locate it, someplace, sometime, some form, some 
architecture for defi nition. Is there an architecture for distinguishing?
ERHARD
I’m not clear about your use of the word architecture.
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 2
(
)
Anatomy or elements.
ERHARD
At one end of the spectrum is design, at the other end is making. Anatomy is at the making 
end. What’s up at the design end, mostly lives in what will remain unsaid. Although present by 
virtue of... all that...
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 2
(
)
Is it possible to elevate or transform a concept to a distinction, and create a possibility?
ERHARD
That’s moving from anatomy to design. When you deal with distinction, with design, there’s
something inherently satisfying about that. There’s something inherently satisfying in master-
ing something, and mastery and distinction are synonymous.
(to the group)
Whatever it is, what are you going to use it for? To look good. The problem is, you can’t use dis-
tinctions. Distinctions use you, you don’t use them. Distinctions give you. Not many people own 
a yellow car, right?  Buy a yellow car and see how many yellow cars you see. We’re developing
occurring as a new distinction. You got
g
is.
may be as veiled as ever” (WCT 17). Therefore Heidegger says of 
T
Socrates: “All through his life and right up to his death, Socrates
did nothing else than place himself into this draft , this current, and
maintain himself in it. That is why he is the purest thinker of the 
West” (WCT 17).
T
The relationship of thinking to Being is easily conceived in
familiar Cartesian terms: “Being is the objective, the object. Think-
ing is the subjective, the subject. The relation of thinking to Being
is that of subject to object” (IM 150). Such a conception, however,
keeps us stuck in one of the primary dualities of metaphysical
thought. Heidegger finds an alternative view in a fragment from 
the Greek thinker Parmenides: to gar auto noein estin te kai einai, 
which has been translated, traditionally and (says Heidegger) inad-
equately, as “thinking and Being are the same” (IM 152). In fact, the 
relation between thinking and Being is much subtler than simple
“identity,” and it is the development of the nature of this relation 
which is at the center of Heidegger’s later thought. In Werner 
Erhard’s work, this relation is explored persistently in the dialogue
of The Forum.
Heidegger emphasizes that the way to thinking is not think-
ing about thinking, a practice that has flourished in the West as
t
“logic” (WCT 21). Nor, even more fundamentally, is it the kind of 
T
thinking which Nietzsche called “blinking,” the formation of ideas
which “present and propose of everything only the glitter, only the
appearance of surfaces and foreground facets” (WCT 82).
T
Merely having thoughts, for Heidegger, is “idea forming,” 
and not at all what is involved in true thinking: “We understand, 
of course, and consider it the most obvious thing in the world, 
when someone says, ‘I think the matter is such and such,’ and 
with it has in mind, ‘I have such and such an idea of the matter’”
(WCT 45). But we have not yet really thought what is involved
T
in idea-forming. That is, we have thought of “idea forming”
as “thinking,” but we have not yet thought of idea-forming as
idea-forming, that is, as a distinct mode of thinking. Thus we
have not thought something which is determinative of our very
existence:


=== END OF PAGE 137 ===