=== PAGE 315 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Four 
301
out. And true to what you said yesterday it occurred to me that this was me running my victim 
racket. I laughed at myself for a moment. And then I went to fi nd some people to go have 
dinner with.
ERHARD
See, hold on a second. He’s a little bit ahead of us. I almost wish he didn’t say that because now 
he’s leaked out the truth, and you’ll latch on to that real fast. That’ll be the new prison bars. 
When you get that it’s empty and meaningless you see things you’ve never seen before. As long 
as you’re stuck with your soap opera you can’t see those things. For instance, if who you are is 
that people are unable, you can’t see the opportunities to develop their ability. And you can’t 
see their ability. As soon as you get that that’s your racket, as soon as you get that whole soap 
opera that you’ve got to do everything your self because there’s nobody around able enough to 
do it, you begin to see things you didn’t see before. Now, I shouldn’t have told you that, you see, 
because you’ll spend the whole night trying to fi gure out how to get out of the trap. And you’ll 
come in here tomorrow all stuck in the trap again. We’ll have to spend the whole day getting 
you out of the trap. And then we’ll have to do an extra day of The Forum with you all. Go ahead.
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 9)
So I’m actually not going to ask the question now. But what I have gotten, and just to share, 
one is that some people’s coaching for me recently is to take myself a little less seriously and I 
can hear the room to be that way now. Secondly, is I’ve been able to share myself with people, 
Werner, not like something happened.
ERHARD
To speak himself. Not in-order-to.
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 9)
I can see as a graduate, staff  member, and Forum leader candidate, that that’s probably 
something for all of us to take on, the sharing in-order-to business.
ERHARD
Good. Thank you.
(applause)
ALEX
What about a child who’s been told everything’s right?
ERHARD
That’s called Skinner’s “glass box,” and Skinner already demonstrated that it doesn’t work. Did 
you get my answer?
ALEX
Yes.
“ 
For instance, if who you are is that people 
are unable, you can’t see the opportunities 
to develop their ability. And you can’t 
see their ability. As soon as you get that 
that’s your racket, as soon as you get 
that whole soap opera that you’ve got to 
do everything your self because there’s 
nobody around able enough to do it, you 
begin to see things you didn’t see before.


=== END OF PAGE 315 ===