=== PAGE 224 ===

210
SPEAKING BEING
“
Each is a truncated monument of thinking. Like the torso of a 
river god or the temple of Poseidon at Sounion, each fragment 
conveys a sense of loss, of tragic withdrawal and absence; yet 
each is a remnant of an exhilarating presence. . . .  (EGT 4)
T
Only indirectly do the fragments indicate their subject matter. . . .
These merest fragments seem to talk about everything, 
g all being, 
g
whatever is. We moderns are convinced that this is nonsense. . . .
(EGT 7)
T
But Heidegger reads these words with the eyes of a man who is relentless in his 
commitment to hear the language of Being; and what he has found provides us with 
a new perspective on the way Western thought has understood the world for two 
millennia (EGT Intro 5).
Is Heidegger’s understanding of pre-Socratic thinking credible? Is it persuasive? 
His reading challenges the traditional translations, and as Krell acknowledges, his 
interpretations are distressing, even violent:
“
Although Heidegger takes each word of the fragments 
seriously—rather because he does so—his thinking plies a 
dangerous, uncharted course which we are at pains to 
follow. . . . But it is the violence inherent in any attempt to 
cross over to that foreign shore, the violence by which we 
overcome inertia and translate ourselves to the matter of 
early Greek thinking. (EGT 11)
T
As we have noted in the last Interval (“The Forgetting of Being, Part Three of Eight”), 
several scholars find Heidegger’s etymologies controversial, including one of his 
recent translators, Richard Polt, who calls them idiosyncratic and oft en “fanciful,” 
and wonders whether Heidegger is “so attracted to the pre-Socratics because 
they survive only in fragments whose interpretation can easily be skewed in a 
Heideggerian direction” (HI 133). But Polt nevertheless concludes that despite their 
idiosyncrasy (or perhaps because of it), his readings succeed in shedding new light 
on the tradition. 
Heidegger reads the writing of the pre-Socratics to unconceal the language of 
Being. As we will see, what he finds has substantial relevance for our inquiry into the 
work of Werner Erhard.


=== END OF PAGE 224 ===