=== PAGE 110 ===

96
SPEAKING BEING
Marsha is that she’s an angry person. I know that’s what’s running her life. Once she’s able to be
with being angry, once she’s able to give being to being angry, she might fi nd out she’s not angry 
g
at all. But “not being angry” is going to run her life until she’s able to be angry. I know you don’t 
get all that yet. You’re starting to get it. As you go along today you will get it. Before you get out 
of here, you will get at the source of your identity. What happens if you get at the source of your 
identity, somebody with a yellow name tag?
Participant (who is wearing a yellow name tag, i.e. someone doing The Forum for the fi rst time)
It doesn’t own you anymore.
ERHARD
Yeah. It’s that simple. This is something almost nobody knows. You’re now one of the few people in 
the world that knows this. What everybody else in the world knows is that you’ve got to fi x what’s
wrong with you, you’ve got to avoid what’s bad, in you or in life. What you now know is any time
you get at the source of something, you are no longer limited to it. Most people would be afraid to do 
what Marsha has done. They fi nd anger so abhorrent, that they are afraid they might fi nd out that 
they are angry. And they can’t tolerate that, they can’t be with that, and so they never get to the being
angry like that’s a possible way of being; they fi ght against being angry, they reject it. In the 70s you 
were supposed to let it all hang out. That’s indulging anger, that doesn’t work either. When you felt
angry you were supposed to spray it all over the place on people. That’s indulging the anger. That’s as
much bullshit as suppressing the anger. There’s a thing called responsibility. As I told you yesterday 
you don’t know what that means yet, but we’ll get to it before we’re done here. Something close to 
owning something, being able to be with it. So you want to take a look down in the swamp down
there at what you’re afraid you might be or hoped you weren’t, or don’t want to be. That’s where the 
monsters are. The green slimy monsters of what you’re afraid to be are running your life. Most of us
would be afraid to get at it, because we’re afraid we might be
t
it. When you own that, at its source, it
e
no longer owns you. We’re afraid to get at it for fear that we might be it. What you’re afraid of owns
you. Marsha, what did you notice in there?
MARSHA
I notice that I’m angry at everybody and everything in this world.
Erhard (to the group)
You want to get the courage in that. She’s angry waiting to happen: already always angry. It’s all 
over the place. It colors the clearing in which the world occurs for her. And only to the degree
she is willing to be with that, standing in front of 800 people and starting to communicate it,
you’re starting to be with it. That’s a lot diff erent than hoping you’re not that. You were saying?
MARSHA
There isn’t one person in this world that I’m not angry with.
ERHARD
And that’s sad for you.
Through this process, as people in the room hear their own 
concerns repeatedly expressed in the speaking of others, not only
do they gain a new way of understanding their own situation, but 
at the same time, through the mutuality implicit in the Forum’s
dialogic structure, the withness of Being-with-Others is gradually 
brought to presence. The dialogue of The Forum thus unconceals
the possibility of a profound relationship of Being among human
beings. This relatedness, we propose, is at a deeper and more fun-
damental level than the diff erences—of race, ethnicity, religion, or 
politics—that occur for us as persistent barriers to cooperation in
all aspects of our lives. Erhard’s work, and its expanding manifes-
tation in the current programs of Landmark Worldwide, create the 
possibility for transcending those barriers. ■
ERHARD (continuing)
“
 So you want to take a look down in the swamp 
down there at what you’re afraid you might 
be or hoped you weren’t, or don’t want to
be. That’s where the monsters are. The green
slimy monsters of what you’re afraid to be are
running your life. Most of us would be afraid to 
get at it, because we’re afraid we might be it. 
When you own that, at its source, it no longer 
owns you.


=== END OF PAGE 110 ===