=== PAGE 499 ===

Forum Day Four: Session Three 485
not clumsy. There’s no quality called clumsy. Put your hands down for a second. The only 
hands I want to see are those who can say “I didn’t get that.” Not an “I have a question” 
hand, but an “I didn’t get that” hand.
Seven people stood. Erhard moved to work with Art, and requested of the others that if they got it 
when Art got it, they should sit down.
ART
I’m trying to come up with answers. The occurring for life... That’s just how they see it.
ERHARD
It’s not quite right, and what’s not quite right about it is that it’s not a physiological 
phenomenon; it’s an ontological phenomenon. The ball exists as slow or fast. It’s not seeing. It’s 
not perceiving. The ball exists as slow or fast. It’s not “I see the ball.” The ball is, like existence, 
slow or fast. 
ART
I’m trying to put that into my life. I used to ride motorcycles and I could ride really fast and I 
can see little things in the road at ninety miles an hour.
ERHARD
Because the bike is occurring as slow for you. 
ART
Well I’m with the bike, I know how to do that. 
ERHARD
No. That’s your explanation. You do not know shit about how to do it. As a matter of fact, go out 
on your bike and try to ride it out of what you know. Try it. You race your bike?
ART
Yes.
ERHARD
Try racing your bike out of what you know.
ART
I’d pop the clutch and it would shut off .
ERHARD
Yeah, exactly. You don’t race out of what you know. You race out of the occurring. So let me ask you...
(getting the dictionary and then tossing it at Art)
what does your behaving have to do with what you know?
While Martin Heidegger’s thinking was consistent in its focus 
on the question of Being, his philosophical inquiry led him along a 
number of paths within this domain. None is of greater relevance to 
our current cultural situation than his perspective on technology, 
a subject central in his thinking during the last forty years of his 
career (Zimmerman, “Beyond ‘Humanism’” 219). In this light then, 
it is significant for our inquiry that Werner Erhard has chosen the 
name “technology of transformation” for his own project (“The 
Heart of the Matter” 1985). In these series of sidebars concerning 
technology, we will show how Erhard’s choice of this term 
indicates, paradoxically, both a crucial intersection of his work with 
Heidegger’s thought, and at the same time, Erhard’s contrast with 
what we might call Heidegger’s “racket”—a persistent complaint 
with a fixed way of being—concerning modern technology.
Regarding technology, Heidegger is emphatic on two 
points. First, we have misunderstood its nature; and second, as a 
consequence of this misunderstanding, we have underestimated 
its role and influence in the current human condition. Our 
problems with technology—which might include overuse, 
inadequate mastery, overreliance, and addiction—do not arise 
because of some incorrect understanding of technology, for 
instance, as a human contrivance, as an instrument for our use, 
or as a means to serve our ends. Rather, our problems with 
technology have arisen in an epoch in which we can no longer 
grasp that “the merely correct is not yet the true” (“QCT” in 
BW 313). Our instrumental understanding, wherein anything 
worthy of understanding must be able to be put to use, fails to 
reach deeply enough to capture technology’s essential impulse. 
Here Heidegger develops that particular point: 
Everywhere we remain unfree and chained to
technology, whether we passionately aff irm
or deny it. But we are delivered over to it in
the worst possible way when we regard it as
something neutral; for this conception of it, to
which today we particularly like to pay hom-
age, makes us utterly blind to the essence of 
technology. (“QCT” in BW 311–312)
“


=== END OF PAGE 499 ===