=== PAGE 544 ===

530
SPEAKING BEING
530
530
530
SPEAKING BEING
SPEAKING BEING
SPEAKING BEING
in order to speak a language which communicates Being, one must speak from an 
ontological location, a clearing, which provides access to Being.
The second question asks: how does the dialogic rhetorical structure of The 
Forum achieve ontological transformation?
The Forum as an instance of ontological rhetoric—that is, rhetoric which 
communicates strategically so as to produce a shift in its audience’s way of Being.
What are the central functional characteristics of ontological rhetoric, as they
have been developed in this book? Fundamental to ontological rhetoric is the 
communication of an unsaid element of language. That is, both Heidegger and
d
Erhard hold that Being is a region or horizon which pervades and contextualizes 
language, but which cannot itself be articulated. Nevertheless, while Being must
remain unspoken, it can nevertheless be brought to presence by means of a certain 
kind of speaking; Heidegger proposed that a dialogue which is conducted in a
certain way can function to bring Being to presence for dialogic partners. Therefore, 
The Forum is an attempt to design and enact a dialogue which brings Being to
presence as an unspoken element of a spoken conversation.
In order for Being to be brought to presence, an ontological shift must occur, a 
t
transformation in the way human beings conceive themselves. According to Heidegger, 
the presence of Being requires a clearing; in our current way of thinking and being,
however, the clearing which human beings are is obscured by the normative self-
structure which we call identity, or the “they” self and its current technological 
way of Being. Therefore, much of The Forum is devoted to the deconstruction of 
identity and its in-order-to, so that participants can begin to see themselves as a
different ontological entity: a clearing for Being from which it becomes possible to
appropriate one’s inauthenticity. Furthermore, from this event new possibilities
for Being arise, and as they are languaged, the world as it occurs transforms and 
takes us along with it. This process of ontological deconstruction and invention is 
posited in The Forum as a process that occurs entirely in language: The Forum is 
a dialogic enactment of Heidegger’s thesis that “language is the house of Being.” 
It creates the conditions for ontological transformation by engaging participants
in the speaking of a new language, a language grounded in certain ontological
assumptions (Erhard’s distinctions, the figures of speech and thought which
comprise his technology of transformation). During the four days of this 1989 Forum, 
as participants engage in the dialogue and speak its language, they gradually come 
to dwell in the ontological assumptions in which that language of distinctions is
grounded, ontological assumptions which have become available as an unsaid
element of the dialogue, and which produce the ontological shift which is The
Forum’s goal.
END OF DAY FOUR INTERVAL
CONCLUSION
Technology of Transformation
Two fundamental questions have guided our inquiry that has, at last, brought us 
to bring to language Erhard’s technology of transformation as we have witnessed 
it in the dialogue of The Forum and in our ruminations that have brought Heideg-
ger’s and Erhard’s thinking face-to-face: What are the foundations of Erhard’s rhetor-
ical and ontological rhetoric? How does the dialogic rhetorical structure of The Forum 
achieve ontological transformation?
First, what are the foundations of Erhard’s rhetorical and ontological rhetoric?
We have sought to show that both Heidegger’s philosophy and Erhard’s
rhetoric are founded upon the existence and nature of what Heidegger calls the 
ontological difference, the difference between beings and Being. Both projects
attempt to span this difference and to develop a language through which beings can 
speak and communicate Being. The Forum may be seen as the practical, rhetorical 
development of Heidegger’s thought in this area; Erhard appears to have taken 
certain difficult Heideggerian ideas and made them accessible in a profound way.
It is not our thesis, however, that Heidegger’s thought is foundational
t
to Erhard’s work as a whole. According to Erhard, his project was generated
by an experience of ontological transformation which he underwent in 1971;
his subsequent work has been an evolving attempt to communicate that
transformation experience. His use of Heideggerian terms and concepts in this effort 
began just a few years prior to the time The Forum replaced the est Training in 1985,
t
and indeed, it may be argued that this encounter was crucial in this development
of Erhard’s work, which development continues to this day in Landmark Worldwide 
and in his new work with speaking the Being of leadership. In any event, while 
drawing upon Heidegger’s ontological language to express his own transformation, 
Erhard has simultaneously extended the communicative possibilities of that 
Heideggerian language. That is, he has shown how a dialogue with Being might look
in lived experience and what its effect might be for those who participate in such an
unfolding ontological dialogue.
Thus the foundation of Erhard’s rhetoric may be seen to be its relationship with
Being, and that where ontological language speaks from determines its power: that


=== END OF PAGE 544 ===