=== PAGE 550 ===

536
SPEAKING BEING
self and other melted away, without any sense of boundary violation. There arose a 
higher level of “we-ness” that respected diff erence, but that no longer allowed diff er-
ence to create an insuperable barrier to being together in the world. 
The Forum hammers home the idea that there is no way to escape the racket 
that constitutes one’s basic way of Being-in-the-world, and that people do what
they do because they have little freedom in the matter. However, perhaps the great-
est realization generated in The Forum, as in the Training, is that despite all this,
people are more than their rackets, more than their fear-driven habitual stances and
practices. Rather, we are the clearing for possibility, as Erhard suggests in the tran-
script of the 1989 Forum. What makes the clearing for possibility available is what 
Erhard calls “being authentic about one’s inauthenticity,” where we own up to—take 
responsibility for—the fact that we compulsively “run rackets.” Such resolute em-
brace of my own inauthenticity unexpectedly allows for a taste of freedom, in which 
a new possibility for action can show up. Such action is motivated not “in order to” 
improve my standing, but instead arises solely for the sake of handling what a given 
situation calls for, as an end in itself.
During the 1970s and 1980s, some critics charged the Training with promot-
ing narcissism, as in the “Me Generation,” and encouraging successful selfishness. 
Although the actions of some Training graduates may have encouraged such critical
evaluations, the Training itself revealed step by step that self-absorption—especially
clinging to my “views” about this or that—is the source of suff ering in my life and in 
the lives of others. Insight into our shared openness, the marvelous freedom with
d
which we are mysteriously endowed, generates not selfishness but rather compas-
sion and the question: “How can I help?” One of Erhard’s favorite phrases goes like
this: “If you forget who you really are, then be of service.” Erhard’s oft en-stated goal 
of creating a world that works for everyone stems from a deep realization that life
is not just about me, it’s about everyone. Like many of those who took the Training
and later The Forum, I would not trade the insight it provided for anything in the 
world. No amount of money, fame, power, sex, drugs, or knowledge is comparable
to what one spiritual tradition calls the “the pearl of great price.”
Spirituality and its relationship to the 
est Training and The Forum
Those who are interested in spirituality and philosophy of religion, as I am, 
can find parallels between Zen Buddhism, Hinduism, and Christianity, on the
one hand, and the Training, on the other. The Training and The Forum are best 
understood, however, as ontological rather than “spiritual” explorations. Unlike
traditional spirituality, as typically experienced in church, synagogue, or mosque, 
and in other non-religious spiritual disciplines, the Training sought to disclose the 
ontological structure of human existence.
Erhard would agree that theologians can draw upon this ontological insight, as 
twentieth-century German theologian Rudolf Bultmann drew upon Heidegger’s phi-
losophy so as to “demythologize” Christian theology. Theology, however, interprets
the transformational experience in accordance with religious concepts and narra-
tives, some of which conflict with the Training’s claim that everything is inherently 
“empty and meaningless,” until we assign a meaning to something that occurs.6 For 
Biblical theism, the universe was meaningful long before humans showed up, be-
cause God intentionally created it. Although informed by an evidence-based idea of 
human existence, the Trainers engaged in phenomenology, that is, instead of getting 
bogged down in discussion of the merits of this theory versus another one, Trainers 
focused on what actually discloses itself in the processes of sharing and interpret-
ing that sharing. As the transcript of the 1989 Forum reveals, the number of shares 
supporting The Forum’s basic assumptions—that we are the clearing in which things
can show up and thus “be,” and that we assign meanings to events that do not 
inherently contain such meaning—was overwhelming.7
In the 1989 Forum, Erhard engages briefly in God-talk, but primarily to dissuade
people from using the idea of God to further their rackets. Doing so, he says at one
point, amounts to blasphemy. “Blasphemy” may seem to be a curious term to use in 
a secular, ontological inquiry. Here is one way to make sense of that usage. The God-
talk in the 1989 Forum is an instance of what Buddhists calls skillful means (upaya). 
Mahayana Buddhism, especially Zen, maintains that “salvation” does not lie in some
far-off  realm still to come, but instead is always already available here and now, in
this very human body/mind. Depicting God as some sort of super entity controlling 
everything from up in heaven, while apart from human existence, impedes discovery
of humankind’s own mode of Being and the possibilities belonging to it. This is the
point made by the shocking Mahayana Buddhist directive: “If you encounter the Bud-
dha on the road, kill him!” You can’t kill the Buddha, however, because he’s not “out 
there.” Instead, Buddha-nature lies within each human being, awaiting the possibility 
of awakening to itself.8 Toward the end of The Forum, there typically arises what I
call “the space of transformation,” that extraordinary moment when most partici-
pants had the experience of shedding the burden of their rackets. Yes, the rackets will
return, but for many people, never with the force that the rackets once had.
Critics sometimes charge that Erhard’s seminars lack “spirituality,” but most 
participants in the 1989 Forum experienced with joy the realization that they are not


=== END OF PAGE 550 ===