=== PAGE 319 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Four 
305
going to be all right. You know how it’s going to be? Just like this. Yeah, it’s not gonna be all right. 
It’s going to be like this. You’re either going to make it like this or you aren’t going to make it.  
You’re either going to learn to be in prison or you’re just going to be unhappy. You’re going to be 
in prison one way or the other. So, why did we talk about empty and meaningless if it isn’t going 
to be useful? Because the truth has power not predicated on being useful. The truth has power, 
which most people can’t see. You want to get this because Lucy’s question opens this up. The 
truth has power, which you can’t see, because you’re only looking for what’s useful. You’re not 
looking for power, you’re looking to exploit, to use, to consume. So you can’t see the power of the 
truth. So Lucy, what I said was, that the truth has a power that, if you’re only looking for what 
you can use, you can’t see. That’s why we had that whole thing about empty and meaningless. 
LUCY
I can think of a way that “life being empty and meaningless” can be of use to us and giving us 
power.
ERHARD (to the group)
Am I demonstrating my point?
LUCY
One of the many alternatives I can think of... 
ERHARD (to the group) 
You want to listen to this.
LUCY
I think it revolves around the issue of performance versus expectation and if we tell ourselves 
often enough that life is empty and meaningless, our expectations as a consequence would be 
set lower over time, potentially...
ERHARD
No.
LUCY
And performance of life relative to expectations, could make us...
ERHARD
That’s wonderful. You ought to do a seminar on that. People would buy that. Look, they bought 
thinking positive big. Yeah, I expect there to be a seminar—if you don’t do it, somebody will. So 
you ought to do it: The Empty and Meaningless seminar, the purpose of which is to lower your 
expectations far enough down that anything feels like winning.
(applause and laughter)
You’re actually having fun with me, aren’t you? She doesn’t mean this, she’s only joking with 
me. She’s kidding me. She’s not looking for the answer. She knows there’s no answer. She’s only 
kidding with me. 
“ 
...the truth has a power that, if you’re only 
looking for what you can use, you can’t 
see.


=== END OF PAGE 319 ===