=== PAGE 330 ===

316
SPEAKING BEING
MARGARET
She didn’t love me. “What’s wrong with me that she didn’t want to come to my wedding? How 
could that be?” And you know it was funny because when she fi rst told me—that she wasn’t 
coming to my wedding—it was fi ne. At fi rst I got it, and then I had it mean something.
KIPP
So what it means that your mother wasn’t coming to your wedding is...
MARGARET
She wasn’t coming to my wedding.
KIPP
“My mother’s not coming to my wedding.”
MARGARET
And then I had it mean something.
KIPP
You had it mean what?
MARGARET
First it meant that there was something wrong with me that she wasn’t coming to my wedding. 
If I wasn’t the way I was, she would come to my wedding. There was something wrong with 
me. And then I had it mean that she didn’t love me. 
KIPP
Which means that there’s something wrong with her.
MARGARET
Right. 
KIPP
Everybody know that’s the next step after there’s something wrong with you? There’s some-
thing wrong with them.
MARGARET
And then um, you know, I called her during the couple months before I got married and I 
would talk to her, and I could see that when I started to have that she wasn’t coming to my 
wedding means something, all I could do was talk to her as an in-order-to: in order to get her 
to come to my wedding; in order to get her to love me. I even went from, “if she’s not going to 
come to my wedding, the least she could do was tell me that she loves me.” And it was just... It’s 
funny, because I just called her up, two days ago during a break, and I said to her, “I just called 
But the world itself is of a different order of being. The 
world itself occurs as Dasein does; and Da-Sein, remember, 
is both Being-there and, for Heidegger Being-a-clearing. The 
phenomenon is like nothing we are accustomed to thinking; thus 
Heidegger’s presentation of the situation is provocative: 
The world is not the sum total of extant 
entities. It is, quite generally, not extant at all. 
It is a determination of [B]eing-in-the-world, a 
moment in the structure of the Dasein’s mode 
of being. The world is something Dasein-ish, It 
is not extant like things but it is da, there-here,
like the Dasein, the being-da [das Da-sein]
which we ourselves are: that is to say, it exists. 
(BPP 166
P
)
“
The world, then, may be seen as a clearing where things can occur 
meaningfully. This is also a working definition of human being: 
the clearing in the world for meaning. Both definitions direct us
to a distinction, a distinction that hints at the unspoken realm of 
world. 
World-understanding as Dasein-understanding
is self-understanding. Self and world belong
together in the single entity, the Dasein. Self 
and world are not two beings, like subject and
object, or like I and thou, but self and world
are the basic determination of the Dasein itself 
in the unity of the structure of [B]eing-in-the-
world. (BPP 297
P
)
“
The transformational power of The Forum arises from its evocation 
of that unity. ■


=== END OF PAGE 330 ===