=== PAGE 194 ===

180
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
Susan brought up something important about living in fear all the time. The truth you’re going 
to fi nd out today is that you live in fear all the time. It’s so pervasive that for you it’s become 
ordinary. So it’s only when you’re overwhelmed by fear that you notice that you’re frightened. 
But the fear is there all the time: “afraid I might get stuck with this”; “afraid I might get boxed 
in.” It’s there all the time. This is an experiment to see what it looks like to live in fear and don’t 
call it that. Call it “everyday living.” The more forceful you are, the more frightened you are. 
You’re just overcompensating for the fear, so to speak. Why do you suppose it takes courage? 
The more frightened you are the more courage you need. The more forceful you are the more 
frightened you are.
SUSAN
I’m not really sure. I keep being confused. My natural tendency is to want to fi x it. 
ERHARD
No, it’s not your natural tendency; it’s its natural tendency. 
SUSAN
Its natural tendency. I keep looking for something. 
ERHARD
Right, to try to fi x it. And whatever you try to fi x gets permanent-ized.
SUSAN
I can’t wait to be able to share equally with my husband.
ERHARD
Well done. Just one point about not sharing in-order-to. Sharing attracts. Looking good ensnares, 
and sharing attracts. You don’t build relationships talking about what you think. You build 
relationships by speaking yourself, and listening self; listening for the self there, not listening 
for the story there. If you listen for self, people will speak their selves. If you listen for crap, people 
will tell you their crap. If you listen for self, people will tell you their crap fi rst, but they’ll get 
around to speaking themselves.
A young man named Andy, wearing a sweatshirt with the logo “Youth at Risk” (a project of Werner 
Erhard and Associates), rose. 
ANDY
I am a lowdown mother-fucking sleeze.
ERHARD
What do you have to do with Youth at Risk?
ANDY
I work there.
“
is that you live in fear all the time. It’s
so pervasive that for you it’s become 
ordinary.


=== END OF PAGE 194 ===