=== PAGE 240 ===

226
SPEAKING BEING
that’s what it is to be human. To be stuck. You don’t like it, too bad. Stay in California. Then you 
can play stuck trying to get unstuck. You understand stuck trying to get unstuck?
(very loudly)
You are stuck trying to get unstuck, you asshole!
KIPP
So Angel, what did you give meaning to?
ANGEL
Life.
KIPP
No. You were going along fi ne, right?
ANGEL
I was going along great. 
KIPP
That’s right, you were going along great.
ERHARD
And you made going along great mean something, didn’t you?
ANGEL
Yes.
ERHARD
Yeah, you turned it into a fucking soap opera. You want to get that, you want to get that real 
clear because you’re going to do the same thing. You will do it. I’m not telling you about it so 
that you won’t do it. That’ll make a fool out of me. ‘Cause you will do it. Remember I said “ride 
the horse in the direction it’s going”? I walk out to the street and watch for which way the traffi  c 
is going. I point in the direction it’s going. Someone says, “Jesus, that guy makes the traffi  c go 
in that direction. Look at that guy! He makes everything go the way he makes it go.” I’m just 
telling you so that I’m pointing in the direction you’re going anyhow. No sense pointing in the 
other direction. That’s stupid. 
KIPP
So, you made what mean something?
ANGEL
That I don’t care.
The Violence of Meaning
Human beings are the animals with language. As a result, we 
awake daily into a meaningful understanding of the world. We 
assign meaning to everything that exists and everything that 
occurs; we are compelled to know what things mean, and cannot 
stand not to know. 
To understand the depth of our attachment to meaning, 
consider Martin Heidegger’s view: language was not a property 
that was somehow granted to human beings; it was only through 
language that human beings became human beings. The impulse 
to mean and know is constitutive of our being. It is so much the 
way we are that we cannot recognize its downside, which is that 
our death-grip on meaning is the source of most of our problems. 
So in any deep exploration of human being, such as that 
conducted in The Forum, it is essential to consider the function 
of meaning, as well as the process by which meanings emerge in 
the world, and are—or are not—maintained there. How did the 
world occur; how did human beings occur? In the writing of the 
pre-Socratic Greek philosophers, Heidegger finds this perspective: 
the beings currently in the world are there because human beings 
spoke them into being. Further, in doing so, we were at the same 
time creating ourselves as human beings.
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 240 ===