=== PAGE 44 ===

30
SPEAKING BEING
not the reasons, nobody else and nothing else. And you have reasons. That’s what I mean by 
people don’t know their ass from a hole in the ground. People don’t know what put them in that
chair. If you’re stuck with this idea that you were pressured, I want you out of here. I’m going 
to say a lot of things in here and you’re only going to get them almost. I know that today you’re
going to get almost nothing I say, because you’re going to put it in the language in which you
dwell. Like “should.” I don’t dwell in the language of should. It’s patently obvious here. I’m 
asking you who’s buried in Grant’s Tomb. This is not hard. You put yourself here.
A participant raised a question about a friend he wanted to do The Forum. He described the man.
PARTICIPANT
Would he feel pressured? 
ERHARD
Yeah, because he’s an asshole.
PARTICIPANT (laughs)
Yeah, that’s true.
ERHARD
You see, you can’t pressure people who are straight. They give clear answers, like “no,” or 
“don’t call me.” I invite people. I want to be clear what I mean by an invitation. An invitation
for me always carries with it the power to decline.
Erhard mounted the platform, and announced a break. However, he said, “in The Forum there are 
no breaks,” so he gave the participants an assignment.
ERHARD
The assignment during the break is to sort out your “story” from “what happened.” Most people 
live in the story and don’t live in the what happened. And there’s something disempowering 
about living in the story instead of living in the what happened. The problem is that you are 
thrown—that’s like already always—you are thrown to the story. You are addicted to the story.
“People don’t like me” and “being insulted” never happen. I’m going to demonstrate insulting. 
I’m going to insult you: I insult you. For the fi rst time in your life you’ve now been insulted as a
what happened. All the other times, someone said something, and you got insulted. People have 
t
said you’re a jerk. But that’s somebody saying “You’re a jerk.” The insult was a story.
t
Having given the assignment, Erhard called Julie, The Forum Supervisor, to the podium. 
ERHARD
Julie’s the person who keeps this organized enough so that it can happen. So your cooperation 
with her is in your interest.
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 44 ===