=== PAGE 109 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session One 
95
WES
You’re present to your anger.
MARSHA
I’m very present to my anger. And I am not a nice person. I’m really getting that I’m, a couple peo-
ple looked around here and “oh boy, what a bitch she is.” And I’m saying, I am the biggest fl aming
bitch. And I’ve covered that up for a long time.
WES (to the group)
Consider the possibility that you are a “covering-up.” I did not say you have a covering-up. I said
consider the possibility that you are a covering-up. See, when she deals with herself, deals with
the covering up; cheerleader on top of angry woman, but that’s who she is.
At this point (10:30 am) Erhard appeared at the back of the room, and spoke in response to the
conversation about covering up. His attire remained the same throughout The Forum: today the 
sweater-vest was olive-green, the slacks brown.
ERHARD
The way it works operationally is—it’s something you’re afraid you might be—is angry. There’s
always a something happened—always, always. However it is that you are, there’s always a 
“something happened” that caused that. And almost nobody knows that because they come at
the way they are from the conceptual side, from the descriptive side, from the explanatory side.
When you get to the source of the way you are, there’s always a “something happened.” You put 
yourself together, fashioned yourself as you were growing up. We pay attention, particular atten-
tion to various aspects of what we call our selves, or what we might call, more accurately, your
identity at various eras of our growing up. In a certain era of your growing up, you were building 
a certain part of your identity. And at another era you built another part of your identity. And
then sometimes you go back and put the fi nishing touches on something you built earlier. But I
want you to begin to be able to think that people are manufactured. You and I are constructed.
Whatever it is that you’re referring to when you say “I think,” whatever the “I” refers to, you call 
that your self, or your identity—sometimes you’ll call it your personality. But whatever is being 
referred to when you say “I think,” “I feel,” “I believe”; and it gets put together out of “what hap-
peneds”; and there’s a “what happened” for every piece of you. A lot of who you are, of how you 
got to be the way you are, and a lot of what maintains your identity is a product of what you’re 
afraid you might be. Something happened in Marsha’s life, and she decided it was wrong to be
angry, or she shouldn’t be angry, or only bad people are angry, or something like that.
(Marsha is weeping; Erhard addresses another participant)
Don’t help her. Thanks.
(continuing)
And she decided that was wrong or bad or something she shouldn’t be, and then she got to be 
afraid that she might be that, and so she had to keep that down in the swamp, at the bottom of 
the Valley of the Shadow of Death, and it’s been there for years, and it runs her life: what she’s
afraid she might be. See I don’t even know that she is angry. I don’t know that the truth about
implies the understanding of Others. This un-
derstanding, like any understanding, is not an 
acquaintance derived from knowledge about 
them, but a primordially existential kind of 
Being, which, more than anything else, makes
such knowledge and acquaintance possible.
(BT 160–161)
Of course, says Heidegger, the factical development of my 
relatedness with another human being will always depend upon 
how well I have come to know myself. And here he makes a point
that is significant for our understanding of The Forum dynamic: 
self-knowledge, he says, arises from relatedness to Others:
“
 Of course it is indisputable that a lively mutual
acquaintanceship on the basis of Being-with, 
oft en depends upon how far one’s own Dasein 
has understood itself at the time; but this
means that it depends only upon how far one’s 
essential Being with Others has made itself 
transparent and has not disguised itself. And 
that is possible only if Dasein, as Being-in-the-
world, already is with Others. (BT 162)
We propose that the transformation that occurs for participants 
in The Forum is not an individual experience, but that the
self-knowledge it makes available arises mutually with an under-
standing of others.
This is the function of The Forum’s dialogic structure, in which
even participants who do not participate overtly in the conversa-
tion are able to find themselves in the sharing of others. Forum par-
ticipants are repeatedly exhorted to listen to others’ sharing “like
that’s you in some way speaking.” As the sharing continues, The 
Forum leader persistently deconstructs each participant’s story 
about his or her experience, and frames the experience instead in 
the language of the distinctions being developed. The distinctions
gradually reveal the ontological structures underlying the expe-
riences, structures common to all of the experiences despite the
diff erences in their details.


=== END OF PAGE 109 ===