=== PAGE 126 ===

112
SPEAKING BEING
JODIE
When I was a child, I was not liked by boys. That’s my story...
ERHARD
Or boys didn’t say certain things to you. That’s what happened. And boys didn’t act in certain
ways with you. There’s a thousand possible stories: “I was so awesome that those twerps didn’t 
have the balls to say to me what they said to those little girls.”
JODIE
That’s what I say now.
ERHARD
All I’m trying to point out is that a story is just a story. The “what happened,” that’s what’s true 
or not. It did or it didn’t. Mostly true. Because she wouldn’t have even noticed boys not saying
or acting a certain way unless her listening was “boys don’t like me.” If your listening is that 
somebody doesn’t like you, everything they say is an expression of not liking you. If we pushed 
Jodie hard enough she could go back and remember that “oh yeah, one of them was trying to be 
nice to me once.” Something like that.
JODIE
So I got attractive and, men asked me out. What I fi nd now is that as an adolescent I believed
that men didn’t like me, so when I got attractive it was like a shell I was putting on.
ERHARD
This is good. I got to stop you because they are listening like this is a soap opera and they need
to listen deeply.
(to the group)
If you’re attractive to make up for not being attractive... if who you really are is unattractive, but
they don’t know that, every time you are attractive, what you are left with is being unattractive. 
When you change unattractive to attractive, what persists is unattractive. It’s a con game, under-
neath which is unattractive. There’s no object that has the quality “attractive.” There’s no being
fulfi lled in being attractive. There’s stuff  in my house I think is wonderful, the dog walks right by.
JODIE
When someone tells me “You’re really beautiful,” what comes up for me is “but you don’t 
really know me.” When I go home I take this off  and there’s the real me and you won’t like that 
person.
ERHARD
Here’s what you want to get: nobody wants to know that about themselves. Nobody wants to 
get that really underneath it all they’re really unattractive. That’s why you paid $625. Because
in here, it’s structured so you can get at that—to the degree that Jodie can be with this, and she 
“
  All I’m trying to point out is that a story is just 
a story. The “what happened,” that’s what’s 
true or not. It did or it didn’t. Mostly true.


=== END OF PAGE 126 ===