=== PAGE 124 ===

110
SPEAKING BEING
come off  well, and that reinforces that I’ve got to look good. And it just goes
around and around.
ERHARD
So when you don’t look good, it reinforces looking good, and when you do
look good, that reinforces looking good.
JODIE
And that there’s been times in my life where, that looking good prevents me 
from expressing what I want to express. I could go home to my intimate rela-
tionship and I could go home alone and say “okay, at least I look good.”
ERHARD
Yeah. Listen. Your little $625, that’s chicken shit compared to what you just 
got from her. You can’t buy that kind of honesty. That’s more insight than most 
people are ever going to have in their entire life. What she told you is that you
don’t own your life.  Looking good owns your life. And life is not about self-ex-
pression. You now know why there’s no satisfaction in your success. Looking
good is gratifying, but not fulfi llment. You notice it’s never enough. Nothing is
ever enough. Nothing. Nothing leaves you whole and complete, nothing leaves 
you full of joy. Because that’s not the name of the game. The name of the
game is looking good. It’s the only game in town. You are not living life. You 
are looking good. Of course, some people look good by looking bad. A lot of 
people look good by being the victim. For example, if you screw up someplace 
when you’re a kid and get a lot of attention. People who are unable. It’s a way 
of life. There’s an organ for some people called dealing with electrical things,
and they don’t have that organ, you see.
(laughter)
Not long ago they burned women to death in Scotland as a favor because their
souls were possessed. The best people in the community applied the tests to 
see if a woman’s soul was possessed by a devil. A lot of what you know to 
be true is in the same order as what those Scots knew that led them to burn
women to death. One of those things that isn’t true is that you own your life,
because you don’t. One of those things that isn’t true is that you’re free, but
you’re not. You’re owned by looking good.
JODIE
For me what happened was I was unattractive as a child. I was 5 feet 8 inches 
at 12 years old. I always stood out in a crowd, was gawky and all that. Always
popular with the girls and never with the boys. Unattractive all the way through
high school. And when I was 17 the transformation took place. I lost 35 pounds, 
got contact lenses and a professional haircut. All of a sudden men liked me.
What showed up for me was that when I was young men didn’t like me.
Collectively, these ways of being—distantiality, averageness, and
levelling down—constitute what Heidegger calls “Publicness,” 
which
“
 controls every way in which the world and Da-
sein get interpreted, and it is always right—not 
because there is some distinctive and primary 
relationship-of-Being in which it is related 
to ‘Things,’ or because it avails itself of some 
transparency on the part of Dasein which it 
has explicitly appropriated, but because it is 
insensitive to every diff erence of level and of 
genuineness and thus never gets to the ‘heart 
of the matter.’ (BT 165, emphasis added)
Finally, although all of this would seem to paint an unrelieved-
ly bleak picture for Dasein’s possibility of Being-in-the-world, there
is one more element that, at first glance, might seem to provide 
some relief, and might (initially at least) be called “the upside of 
the they-self.” In Werner Erhard’s model, it is in fact one of the 
“payoff s” in the structure of a racket:
“
 [B]ecause the “they” presents every judgment 
and decision as its own, it deprives the particu-
lar Dasein of its answerability. The “they” can, 
as it were, manage to have ‘them’ constantly 
invoking it. . . . It ‘was’ always the “they” who 
did it, and yet it can be said that it has been 
‘no one.’ . . . .Thus the particular Dasein in its 
everydayness is disburdened by the “they.” Not 
only that; by thus disburdening it of its Being, 
the “they” accommodates Dasein if Dasein has 
any tendency to take things easily and make 
them easy. (BT 165) 
And what Dasein wouldn’t want to make things easy? Avoidance
of responsibility for one’s situation, and off -loading of blame 
JODIE (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 124 ===