=== PAGE 188 ===

174
SPEAKING BEING
purposes are looking good--all that stuff  up on the board specifi cally--that’s what looking good 
looks like: being right, making other people and other things wrong, dominating, avoiding 
domination, justifying yourself and invalidating others, and other things. When you come to see 
that that’s what your life is being used for, you’ve gotten pretty close to the source of your self. 
You’ve gotten pretty close to the source of your identity. Pretty close to the source of that with 
which you’ve confused your self. Go on.
BETTY
He was right that I allow myself to be used for acceptance. That was the cost that I was paying. 
I didn’t enjoy the cost I was receiving. I made them wrong to be right when I was the one who 
was wrong. 
KIPP
Even though she didn’t enjoy the cost she was receiving, it was familiar. And what you call 
comfortable is what is familiar, what you are used to. She doesn’t know now how to relate to her 
brother. She knows how to relate to him before: make him wrong. But now she has to be in the 
presence of the risk...
ERHARD
She’s got to make up a relationship with her brother. That’s called “invent.” She’s got to invent a 
relationship with her brother. Another word for that is “create”: create a relationship with her 
brother. You want to think about that a little bit: The possibility of living life as a creative act, 
where you don’t have an answer when you stand in front of the canvas. What you’ve got is an 
empty canvas, possibility. You create something in the empty space of not knowing how to be 
there already. Knowing how to be there already is nothing more than the past coming around to 
meet you in the future. Sure she knows how to relate to her brother that way she’s always been. 
That’s comfortable. It’s uncomfortable to stand in front of an empty canvas. It’s uncomfortable 
because you’re at risk. You might make a fool of yourself. You might be conned. You might get 
taken advantage of. You don’t like that, visit the surgeon and get a lobotomy. 
BETTY
It doesn’t just stop at my brother.
ERHARD
Obviously it doesn’t stop at your brother. Somebody who says “I hate, I hate, I hate”—that is 
“disgruntled and unhappy” waiting-to-happen. Suppose she doesn’t have this as a way to start 
every morning? Suppose she doesn’t have that as a way to walk into work? She’ll have to create 
a way to walk into work, and create a way to walk into her relationships with her family, and 
create a way to walk into relationships with men in her life—instead of being sour to start with 
before anything happens.
BETTY
I stay sour constantly.
referentiality, a frame of reference for our understanding—a
“towards-which” for all of our/its dealings in the world. And the 
primary towards-which, says Heidegger, is always the “for-the-
sake-of-which” that Dasein itself is: “the ‘for-the-sake-of’ always
pertains to the Being of Dasein, for which, in its Being, that very
Being is essentially an issue” (BT 116–117). My concerns and my
T
actions always circle back to my own Being, always defined by
the in-order-to: “In so far as Dasein exists factically, it understands
itself in the way its ‘for-the-sake-of-itself’ is thus connected with
some current ‘in-order-to’” (BT 416).
T
One of The Forum’s central purposes is the unconcealment
of the in-order-to, which is the design function of the “it”—the 
calculative thinking which characterizes the technological clear-
ing. Erhard has pointed out that recognizing his own thrownness 
to in-order-to was central in the development of his thinking. 
During his 1971 experience of ontological insight, from which the
est Training was generated, he says:
t
“
I realized that I actually didn’t know anything. Ev-
erything that I knew had a tag on it, and the name 
of the tag was “in order to.” So I knew this in order 
to, I knew that in order to, et cetera. Everything
t
was somehow a part of a story about how it was 
going to advance me or how it could be used, or 
how it could benefit people, or whatever it might 
be. Nothing lived on its own. (Simon  37)
As we will show in the closing Interval for Day Four of The Forum,
the danger of the technological clearing, for Heidegger, is that we
are oblivious to its nature and are thus denied access to the truth 
of aletheia: “Through [the technological destining of enframing]
the other possibility is blocked,” said Heidegger, that human 
being “might rather be admitted sooner and ever more primally
to the essence of what is unconcealed and to its unconcealment 
[aletheia]” (“QCT” in BW 331).
W
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 188 ===