=== PAGE 122 ===

108
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
Listen carefully. What Marsha’s telling you doesn’t belong to her. That bullshit is all over the 
place. It’s a rainstorm. It’s all over the place: that bullshit about being stretched too thin. You
ain’t ever going to be big enough to operate in a way that doesn’t leave you unnurtured and too
thin. You’re going to die disappointed, because you aren’t ever going to accomplish enough to be 
fulfi lled when accomplishment is there in-order-to. All you’re doing is building dissatisfaction that
accomplishment is designed to avoid. It looks like a big pile of satisfaction. I mean, here’s a wom-
an who was successful as an older child; successful in college. Extraordinarily successful raising 
six children, married to a great guy: and it’s making her “thin.” It makes you thin when those
accomplishments are in-order-to. It ought to be making her “thicker” not “thinner.” They make
you thinner when they’re not fulfi lling, when they’re not enlivening, when they’re a strategy.
(to Marsha)
What else?
MARSHA
Here I am today.
ERHARD
You’re in the right place.
(applause)
You aren’t going to be around that much honesty for the most part. What you and I did yes-
terday was put together a structure in which it is possible to be honest. You need to develop a
language for honesty. You can’t be honest in everyday language. It’s not designed for honesty.
You and I have been building a structure of distinctions designed for honesty. So you and I have 
been building a language, a set of distinctions, building a structure where it is possible to be
honest. You’ve got to be a big person to be authentic about your inauthenticity. Being authentic 
about your inauthenticity gives you being big. There’s no “big” inside of Marsha. No qualities 
in there. What you and I describe as “qualities” arise in the moment of action. Someone who is
authentic about their own inauthenticity is giving themselves being big. Is that clear to you?
(returning to participant who remained seated without a mic)
There are no big people in here, because people are neither big nor small. They’re just people. 
And when you’re authentic about your inauthenticity, it gives you being big. If she already had
the quality in there, that would be like being tall. If big were inside us, there wouldn’t be any-
thing very interesting about that, would there? Big arises in the acting. On the common sense
view, what would it occur to you to do with your inauthenticity? Hide it. Stamp it out. Change
it. Fix it. Repair it. The way you already always are about your inauthenticity is something 
across the spectrum from fi x it, not-be-it, shove it down, across the spectrum to hide it. The idea 
to share it would never occur to you. The idea to dump it on others might occur to you because 
of the idea you’ve got called “friends.” It’s pure crap, what you tell your friends, pure crap. Be-
cause what do you tell your friends? The story. They have no respect for you so they sympathize 
with you. They think you’re crap, just the same as you do, and that’s sad. And the appropriate
for an ontological entity, such as a human identity, the essential
survival requirements are being right and looking good, which 
together justify and maintain whatever way we wound up being.
Both of these elements are addressed here during the second 
day of The Forum. Being right is proposed as one of the primary 
payoff s in the structure of a racket; and the discussion of looking
good grows out of the assignment given at the end of the first day, 
when participants were told to locate the places in their life where
they were being “used by looking good.” Both of these distinctions 
are essential elements of the model Erhard is creating in order to 
deconstruct our Cartesian understanding and reveal the clearing
for a new possibility of being human.
Heidegger has likewise proposed a structure for understand-
ing human Being (Dasein) in terms of its domination by a concern 
for the opinions of others. His rubric for this structure is das Man.
In the standard translation of Being and Time, this phrase is ren-
dered as the “they,” and here Heidegger describes the situation:
“
 [Dasein] itself is not; its Being has been taken
away by the Others. . . . These Others, more-
over, are not definite Others. On the contrary, 
any Other can represent them. What is de-
cisive is just that inconspicuous domination 
by Others which has already been taken over 
unawares from Dasein as Being-with. . . . The 
“who” is not this one, not that one, not one-
self, not some people, and not the sum of them 
all. The ‘who’ is the neuter, the “they.y ” (BT 164)
Hubert Dreyfus proposes that to translate das Man in this way 
suggests that I am to be distinguished from them. But the point is
that the “they” has taken me over, so that in being dominated by
the “they” I am one of them. Therefore Dreyfus prefers the trans-
lation “the One”; that is, we don’t conform to the norms because 
“they” do it, but because “it’s what one does” (BITW 151–152). 
W
Says Heidegger: “In this inconspicuousness and unascertainability,
the real dictatorship of the ‘they’ is unfolded” (BT 164). As a result,
T
Dasein loses itself in the ways of Being of the “they,” and the Self of 
everyday Dasein becomes the they-self.


=== END OF PAGE 122 ===