=== PAGE 331 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
317
to let you know that...I just called to say hello.” We just kind of talked. And she told me what 
was going on with her. I told her that our wedding was great and that I got back great pictures 
from the photographer, that I couldn’t wait to show them to her, that I really love her. She said 
to me, well, I said to her that I don’t know how to create a relationship, or how to have a kind 
of relationship that works for you. I keep trying to do something and I haven’t been doing any-
thing that’s really worked. “All I’ve done is fi gured out what was wrong with you or what was 
wrong with me and try to tell you that, and make you do something diff erent.” And she said 
to me, “just be yourself.” You know, it was really remarkable. Because whatever she’s going 
through she’s going through. And my father just died and she told me that, you know, she just 
shared with me a little bit about that...
KIPP
She said?
MARGARET
She said: “It’s tough and I don’t know how I’m going to get over it and what I’m going to do.” 
And I also saw... My mother and my brothers have been saying to me: “You don’t live in the 
same city we do, you can’t have the same kind of relationship we have with each other.” And 
I saw that she’s upset that I don’t live where she lives. I’ve never heard it like that before. So 
we just had a conversation where there was no sting anymore. There was no more me trying 
to get her to do something. It was a conversation where we were actually talking to each other 
instead of me trying to get her to do something. And it’s a beginning. And I also said to her that 
all I was committed to was that she really, you know, have her life work for her. And I had no 
idea what that was going to be and she didn’t either. It was really a beginning, a place to talk 
to each other from. And I saw I wasn’t trying to get her to do something. So however I hung 
up the phone, I was satisfi ed, and however way I’ve been operating never left me satisfi ed in 
talking to her.
KIPP
Anything else?
MARGARET
One of the things I came to The Forum to get is a way of working with the people I work with 
that I don’t live like some special unique human being, but really able to contribute whatever 
distinctions are clear to me to them so that they can get done whatever I can get done. And I 
can see, who I’d have... I have no idea how to do it and actually live like a possibility for me, 
inside my relationship with the people I work with, rather than something I’m supposed to do, 
someway I have to be in order to make it. And how I’ve been... when I couldn’t be with some-
thing I didn’t know how to do, or continuing to stand in the face of not knowing how to deliver 
on all the work that we’ve got, not knowing how to do that. What I do is I use force instead of 
being able to be with whatever’s happening.


=== END OF PAGE 331 ===