=== PAGE 545 ===

Forum Day Four: End of Day Four Interval 531
The strategic dialogue in which this process occurs is from time to time 
characterized by aggressiveness and intrusiveness on Erhard’s part, and by frequent 
resistance on the part of his dialogic partners. Heidegger has pointed out that 
any attempt to analyze Being constantly has the character of doing violence to
the complacency of the everyday interpretation. Thus what occurs in The Forum 
is the violation of the everyday interpretation, as identity (the “they” self) is
deconstructed and Being is wrested from unconcealment. In the process, Erhard’s
rhetoric sometimes seems intrusive, and the dialogue which it stimulates is often 
combative; yet during the four days of The Forum the results of the dialogue are 
dramatic.
Central to Erhard’s achievement is his rhetorical development of two 
Heideggerian ideas. The first is the complex and elusive notion of appropriation, 
which addresses the central paradox of the being-Being relationship: that human 
beings can attain ontological freedom only by recognizing and allowing their 
fundamental subservience to the play of Being. The second is the encounter with
the Nothing, the emptiness and meaningless correlative to the mood of anxiety. 
Both of these ideas are communicated, in The Forum’s persistent and reiterative
ontological rhetoric, so that they can be apprehended as ontological insights:
that is, so that they produce a result in the participants’ way of Being by virtue of 
discovering it for themselves, rather than simply being understood conceptually. 
Through the reiterated dialogic communication of these ontological insights, 
participants in The Forum’s dialogue come increasingly to dwell in the ontological
assumptions given by those insights, and then act in their lives with freedom to be
in the very circumstances that would otherwise appear as constraints.
Embedded in both of these Heideggerian ideas, and basic to The Forum’s 
ontological rhetoric, is the figure of reflexivity. That is, for both Heidegger and 
Erhard, what is necessary for the creation of a clearing for Being is that human 
beings turn around and see themselves as they are. Thus The Forum is fundamentally 
the enactment of a reflexive turn, a rhetorical figure par excellence: participants in 
The Forum, by virtue of its technology of transformation, speak a language designed
to reveal them as they are, so that what may be simultaneously revealed, within and 
beyond the way they are, is their own largest possibility.
We conclude that Erhard’s work is both a manifestation of the metaphysical/
technological tradition and a new appropriation of that tradition. Therefore, on the 
Heideggerian view, it is an appropriate venue for a reflexive thinking which can step 
back, and in taking such a step, to reach beyond the current technological paradigm
by reaching through that paradigm. The technology of The Forum is putting-into-
use putting itself to use in order to turn and see itself face-to-face. It is calculative, 
technological thinking calculating its own deconstruction, reflexion radicalized
for the appropriation of its own essential nature. As a dialogic, rhetorical project,
it extends the communicative possibilities of Heidegger’s thinking, and makes the 
event of appropriation, and the freeing release which it occasions, available to an 
audience which Heidegger’s work is likely never to reach.


=== END OF PAGE 545 ===