=== PAGE 68 ===

54
SPEAKING BEING
Jake nodded and then sat down.
ERHARD (to Paul)
Did you get what I said to him?
PAUL
Yeah, so, what you’re saying is that specifi c instance you didn’t do what you said, you’re inau-
thentic, and I would agree with you there, but...
ERHARD
I don’t want your agreement. I want you to create this square.
 
(drawing an imaginary square on the fl oor in front of Paul) 
Inside that square is a diff erent world. Inside that world, when you act one way and present
yourself another way, that’s inauthentic.
PAUL
Specifi cally, or generally?
ERHARD
Generally. Just in that world. It’s not true in the rest of the world. Can you handle that?
PAUL
Yeah. I’m not sure what it applies to, but...
ERHARD
It doesn’t apply to anything. Can you handle that?
PAUL
Yeah.
ERHARD
Stand in that square and listen to what I say next. Because only standing there will what I’m
about to say make any sense. All right? You ready to stand in that square?
(to Paul)
You ready? So in that little square, I know it’s not true, and it’s not that way in the rest of the
world, and for those for whom one and one is two, when you pretend to be one way and act
another, that’s called inauthentic. When you own up to this, that’s being authentic about your 
inauthenticity. Anybody not get that? That’s the beginning of authenticity. Authenticity does not 
AUTHENTICITY
Here Erhard provides a counterintuitive, but very Heideggerian 
premise: authenticity is possible only with the development 
of an authentic relationship with our own inauthenticity. Here 
authenticity is an act of ownership, of owning the calculative 
clearing which we are, of accepting the particular gift  of Being 
whose sending characterizes our epoch. Heidegger introduced 
this idea in Being and Time, where he employed the term 
“resoluteness” to characterize Dasein’s state of having-
appropriated; he described this resoluteness as an empowering 
authenticity toward one’s own inauthenticity: 
Resoluteness appropriates untruth authen-
tically. Dasein is already in irresoluteness, 
and soon, perhaps, will be in it again. . . . The 
irresoluteness of the “they” remains domi-
nant, notwithstanding, but it cannot impugn 
resolute existence. (BT 345)
“
This idea lies at the heart of the appropriative event: in 
the context of having appropriated one’s inauthenticity, that 
inauthenticity, which persists, is nevertheless transformed. 
It is an idea which defies our usual thinking: ontically, such a 
“transformation” can only be seen as blatant self-justification, a 
philosophically sophisticated rationalization for accepting one’s 
worst nature. Ontologically, however, appropriation justifies 
nothing. Appropriation appropriates; it gives Being. Resoluteness, 
then, is “the opening up of human being, out of its captivity in 
that which is, to the openness of Being” (“OWA” in PLT 67). Much 
of The Forum is devoted to developing the possibility of a non-
justificatory event of appropriation. ■


=== END OF PAGE 68 ===