=== PAGE 466 ===

452
SPEAKING BEING
Kipp asked participants to raise hands to indicate how many guests (who had invited the current 
participants to take The Forum) were coming at 9 pm, so that enough chairs could be set up to 
accommodate them.
MAUREEN
When you said, “Chocolate: choose!” I started to cry, because I have this big trauma drama that 
has taken me forever to get over, that if I told it to you, I could make you cry, and I could write a 
whole soap opera about my childhood, I mean it is so good, right? And it always felt like I never 
had a choice, and I worked through that stuff , and I could never like really be with it, and it was 
like when you said “chocolate: choose!” I had that choice to choose it, and I didn’t, I resisted it, I 
made people wrong, and ran my rackets on them, did a lot of crazy stuff , and I just sat back there 
and cried because I got that you said that for me. You gave me a gift. Thank you for giving me that.
KIPP
You’re welcome. Good work!
(applause)
The gift, the satisfaction, is in the creating of the distinctions. There was something inherently 
satisfying in the creating of the distinction, which gave her freedom. Like The Karate Kid, 
washing cars, waxing cars: wax on, wax off . Wax on, wax off  didn’t seem like freedom to the 
karate kid until he got out on the court and played, and he was left in the presence of karate. 
Coaching doesn’t look like what you think it should.
JORIE
I just came back from dinner and I was talking to my brother—he is also in The Forum—and 
I have been struggling with The Forum. I was grieving over the relationship with my parents, 
because I realized I didn’t really know them, with their stories and my stories. And my brother 
helped me. He said, at the same time I was grieving, instead of having to grieve, those times I 
was, I could have accepted the possibility that now I can be friends with them and just accept 
them, and fi nd out who they are instead of grieving about who they were, and being sad about 
all the stories that they have. And also, this is my fi rst time to share. This is just the beginning, 
like everybody said, and I cannot tell you how much freedom it has given me. Talking about 
choice and decision, in every part of my life, and especially my job. I just wanted to share that.
KIPP
Sharing it empowers you. The more you share it and make it real for yourself, the more it’s you. 
Fabulous. Thank you very much.
(applause)
VINNY
People who know me: I’m a very signifi cant guy. Very serious. I saw a racket of mine and how 
it ties in during the choice exercise I wanted to share with everybody. What I do with people is 
I make them authority fi gures. I don’t care who they are. Started off  with my fi rst wife. I made 
her the boss: She was a couple years older than me. That was easy. Then I made my second wife 


=== END OF PAGE 466 ===