=== PAGE 200 ===

186
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
If you were going to design a universe you would not design growing up like people do it. But 
that’s the way it is. It’s messy. The single most important issue between parents and children is 
that they love each other. And that’s almost never the discussion. It doesn’t make you a better 
person to clean your room. The point is to have a little straightness in the conversation. It’s a 
diffi  cult process at best. There are no experts on raising children. No one has the code. It’s very 
powerful what Edna is talking about. You’ve got to keep getting off  it with your children too. 
The interesting thing about kids: if you get off  it with them, they’ll get off  it with you. When 
you’re being straight with them, it occurs to them they might be straight with you. Great, Edna. 
Good stuff , really good stuff .
(turning to the group)
Where’s Jane? 
The young woman who had spoken the previous day (Day Two, Session Four) about her father and 
stepmother stood. 
ERHARD
What happened to sad? 
JANE
I don’t know.
ERHARD
Do you really not know, or do you not want to talk about it?
JANE
I think I was sad because... it was all up here. I was scared so much.
ERHARD
What do you mean “I think”?
JANE
I know.
ERHARD
What you’re saying is “I was feeling emotional because I was standing up in front of a group of 
people.” What happened that you feel that way? Don’t say “I don’t know” ever again.
JANE
Something that happened that I don’t remember.
ERHARD
Can you remember a time when you stood up in front of a group of people?
book to provide further context concerning questionable political 
judgments of Heidegger the “man,” which put at risk the substan-
tial innovations and contributions of Being and Time and of his
other writings.)
The contribution and innovation of Heidegger’s thinking that 
is central to our study includes his particular path of thinking,
a path that reached beyond the academic context in which he 
worked and thrived, and into the domain of ontology. Working
persistently in this domain for more than five decades, he strove to 
honor the discipline of philosophy by committing his life to under-
mining its foundational concepts.
Embedded throughout his many published volumes is a per-
spective on philosophy, and its relation to language, that strongly 
resonates with Werner Erhard’s approach to ontological inquiry.
In the lectures published as The Fundamental Concepts of Meta-
physics, for example, Heidegger is elusive regarding philosophy’s
nature. Philosophy is
“
not some mere gathering of knowledge that we 
can easily obtain for ourselves any time from 
books, but (we know this only obscurely) some-
thing to do with the whole, something extreme,
where an ultimate pronouncement and interlocu-
tion occurs on the part of human beings. (FCM 4,
M
emphasis added).
He is emphatic on one point: “Philosophy is philosophizing. . . .
It itself is only whenever we are philosophizing.” Philosophy 
emerges in acts of languaging; and if it is authentic philosophy, it 
emerges newly in each iteration, “however much we seem merely 
to be repeating the same thing” (FCM 4). Frequently in The Forum, 
Erhard calls out the participants whom he hears codifying their 
experiences as beliefs. Authentic philosophy rips space open newly 
in every articulation; it is philosophizing that never calcifies into 
philosophy. 
Further, Heidegger suggested the direction that philosophical
dialogue should move in the current epoch. The task concerns at-
tunements, which are ways of being open to the world. A human be-
ing is never just open; we are always open in some particular way. 


=== END OF PAGE 200 ===