=== PAGE 336 ===

322
SPEAKING BEING
RAPHAELA
My racket is that I won’t make a decision. So, to work that racket I make a decision for me and 
I make a decision for everyone else and the decision I’m making is that I can’t accept that. And 
I’m standing up here now because I have been participating “in-order-to,” so it’s not participat-
ing, it’s not sharing: Whatever I say, it’s coming out as in-order-to. 
ERHARD
Like you can’t get out of that, can you? Everything you do is in-order-to; you can’t get out of 
the trap. You try to get out of the trap, it gets you in the trap because trying to get out of the 
trap... you’re doing what you’re doing to get out of the trap. And if you succumb to the trap, 
you’re stuck in the trap. There’s no way out of the trap. It’s called being human. There’s no way 
out of being human. The only thing you’ve got is to accept it; not accept like give in, but accept 
like own, like be responsible for, like embrace. It’s called embracing yourself. You read it in 
books: It’s called loving yourself or accepting yourself. Nobody knows what that means. People 
think “loving yourself” is some zzzzzt thing. No. It’s what we’re talking about in here. We’ve 
kind of got it fl ayed open so you can see it. It’s owning that you’re always in-order-to; that every 
time you operate you’re operating out of your racket; and any attempt to operate with some-
thing other than your racket is another racket. It’s rackets all the way down... to the bottom. 
At the bottom you get to empty and meaningless. That’s not a racket. Empty and meaningless 
is worthless. It’s not good for anything. Empty and meaningless doesn’t make you right and it 
doesn’t make anything wrong, and it doesn’t help you to dominate anything or avoid domination. 
It doesn’t justify anything. And on top of that, all there is, is rackets and in-order-tos. And 
that’s why it doesn’t make any diff erence whether you accept it or not. So you don’t accept that 
it’s empty and meaningless? So what? It’s still empty and meaningless—except that it’s empty 
and meaningless that it’s empty and meaningless. Doesn’t make any diff erence. Still doesn’t 
mean anything that it’s empty and meaningless. And if you did accept it, so what? Still empty 
and meaningless. Doesn’t help when you accept it. Doesn’t go away. Doesn’t get fi xed. Still 
empty and meaningless and it’s still empty and meaningless that it is empty and meaningless. 
You see? Like that. What else?
RAPHAELA
Yesterday when we went through the fear experience...
ERHARD
That wasn’t fear, that was the danger exercise. You all will call it fear. That’s what you call it; 
we call it the danger exercise.
(to Kipp)
Did you call it fear?
KIPP
Absolutely not.
The “they” gives its approval, and aggravates
the temptation to cover up from oneself one’s 
ownmost Being-towards-death. This evasive 
concealment in the face of death dominates
everydayness so stubbornly that, in Being with
one another, the ‘neighbors’ oft en still keep 
talking the ‘dying person’ into the belief that 
he will escape death and soon return to the
tranquillized everydayness of the world of his 
concern. Such ‘solicitude’ is meant to ‘console’
him. [. . .] In this manner the “they” provides 
a constant tranquillization about death. At 
bottom, however, this is a tranquillization not 
only for him who is ‘dying’ but just as much for 
those who ‘console’ him. (BT 297–298
T
)
“
Following the familiar flight away from the nothing, and listening 
away to the “they” self, we might easily conclude that people
don’t die. They pass. Yes, the euphemism is apt; certainly death is 
a passage. At the same time, more openness and authenticity in 
this realm is a worthy goal. Uncanny conversation is not morbid; it 
only reveals that we are in an essential state of lack. We are to our 
core striving to live practice lives designed to allow us to escape, 
designed to relieve us of the anxiety that calls out from the 
Nothing, reminding us that we are thrown to be what we already
and always are, human beings, meaning making machines, an 
existence and facticity—the trap—from which there is no escape 
other than to be in the trap. ■


=== END OF PAGE 336 ===