=== PAGE 111 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session One 
97
MARSHA
Yeah, because I want relationships with people, and I can’t get close.
ERHARD
Listen up here, because most of you are not going to have the courage for this. So you need
to get it from those who do have the courage. That there’s something sad for her about being
angry—that’s why she’s afraid she might be angry, then it’s all mashed in with being close. 
Convoluted in a knot.
MARSHA
My whole life has been an act about being happy and cheerful, giving and caring, getting every-
body to like me, and they do. The truth is that I don’t have an enemy in the world.
ERHARD
Hold on for a second. So if you’re a person who has the skills that Marsha has, the skills of be-
ing related to people well, and somehow that’s not nurturing her deeply and profoundly; that’s
not leaving her full of joy, because it’s there in order for her not to be angry! Do you hear the
in-order-to? In order not to be angry?
Marsha remained standing while Erhard worked with several other participants.
ERHARD
So if I’m nice in order not to be angry, what persists? You’ve got to get clear on this. Who’s not
clear on this?
A participant named Mike stood.
ERHARD
So Mike, if I relate well, in order not to be angry, when I relate well, what’s always there is being 
angry. It’s being there as something I’m resisting.
Erhard approached another participant, and did a demonstration in which each man grasped the
other’s hands and attempted to push the other away.
ERHARD
So if I’m resisting something, I’m attached to what I’m resisting. All this relating-well dances 
around anger, is attached to anger. I never have any profound sense of being related, because
what persists under being related is being angry all the time. I don’t have a deep sense of fulfi ll-
ment out of relating well, because what persists is being angry all the time. See, I’m not related 
well in order to be related, I’m related well in order not to be angry. You ever notice that real 
nice people, when you crack their shell a little bit, there’s a lot of dissatisfaction and sadness?
You know, there’s a lot of real nice people in here; all you got to do is crack the surface and then
there’s dissatisfaction. Is it starting to be clear?


=== END OF PAGE 111 ===