=== PAGE 132 ===

118
SPEAKING BEING
PETER
Anything I can think of is a description.
ERHARD
Yeah, it’s okay. That’s right. And every time you say it, I’m going to say that’s a
description, and what’s underneath that? Why? Because—you know, I’m going 
to say this a thousand times today, I can feel it coming—because it’s the inquiry 
where the power is, not the information you derive from the inquiry. Look, 
we’ve invented a new technology. We’ve invented a technology called ontologi-
cal inquiry. Really, that’s wrong. We’ve invented a technology called ontological
design. The way you do ontological design is like Peter and I are doing it: “May-
be it’s this. But how could it be that? What’s underneath that? Well, underneath
that is this. Okay, but how could it be that? What’s underneath that?” And
somehow, if Peter and I are doing it correctly, when we’re all done, neither of us 
will know anything we didn’t know before, but life will be an opening for that
into which we’ve inquired. So Peter and I will find ourselves, not remembering
what to do to be leaders, or not remembering what property we need to have 
to be leaders, but rather we will find ourselves being leaders. . . . Because I say
that a well-designed, rigorous inquiry, while not leading to answers, while not
leading to information, while not leading necessarily to understanding, leads to
an opening, like a possibility, like a clearing, for that into which I’m inquiring.
ERHARD
No. Can’t see commitment. It’s not a presence. I don’t mean you can’t see it, 
therefore it’s not a presence, but I’m trying to kind of engage you into: how do 
you inquire into presence? So is commitment ever present? No, that’s always a 
conversation, an assessment about what’s going on there. . . . What’s actually 
going on there?
PETER
I don’t know.
ERHARD
Try this: something about unrestrained action? Maybe something like unre-
strained action, maybe something like consistent action? Maybe something like
repetitive action, maybe something like action powerful enough to meet a resis-
tance? I don’t know. See, I don’t know, and I don’t care about the answer! What 
I care about is establishing ourselves in the domain of leadership as a presence. 
That’s what this is all about. It’s a trick. This is not really to get the answer. We’re
not going to give you a test to see if you got the answers right aft erwards. . . .
PETER
It’s action without concern.
ERHARD
Okay. Good. Now, what does concern mean? See, no matter what he says, I’m
going to have a question, aren’t I? Why? Because I don’t care about the answer!


=== END OF PAGE 132 ===