=== PAGE 498 ===

484
SPEAKING BEING
you take behavior out when you train an athlete with repetition. You take behavior out, not add 
behavior. He has to do this. You don’t want him to do that. Let him keep doing that and he’ll 
stop doing that if the training’s any good, and he’ll be free to do anything. When he’s free to do 
anything, he’ll deal with the ball eff ectively. You don’t need to tell people “step back when the 
ball bounces in front of you.” Because you’re never going to be eff ective when you’re trying to 
remember what to do when the ball bounces in front of you. When the ball bounces in front 
of you as catchable, you step back, because stepping back is perfectly correlated with the ball 
that bounces in front of you and is catchable. Stepping forward is what you do when the ball 
bounces in front of you and it’s not catchable. 
(pausing)
Is it starting to get through? Not “do you agree with it?”: Are you able to stand in the possibility 
that my actions in life are not a product of internal properties? My actions in life aren’t a product 
of anything. My actions in life are a correlate of something. What they are a correlate of is the 
world as an occurring. For example, if the world occurs as threatening, your actions will be 
perfectly correlated with a threatening world. The question is not: “Is the world threatening?” 
The question is: “Does the world occur as threatening?” It’s not that one person is strong and 
the other person weak. You think you’re strong, let me put you in a set of circumstances that 
occur suffi  ciently threatening and you will cower. People who cower are not weaklings. The 
world occurs for them as overwhelmingly threatening. People who are musical: Music occurs 
for them in a way that it doesn’t for those of us who are not very musical. The keyboard does 
not look like it does to you and me to a pianist. Totally diff erent. I did an experiment driving a 
racecar for a year. Didn’t know anything about racing cars when I started. Didn’t even drive for 
the most part when I started. I had a license. I hadn’t been in a gas station for something like ten 
years. When I started out, the car went very fast. Really fast! I mean overwhelmingly fast. Except 
for the guy on the sidelines who had the stopwatch. For him it was going very slow. But the 
slower the car went for me, the faster my times were. I could see divots in the roadway a quarter 
of an inch deep and put the edge of my tire in that divot. The car got real slow. Real easy to 
drive a car slowly. You get into a race car and drive it slowly, it’s easy. Takes no talent, no ability, 
which was very good in my case. The slower the car goes the faster the times are, because action 
is a correlate of the occurring. How many people in here manage other people? 
(several participants raising their hands)
How many other people in the room raise children? That’s managing people, by the way.
(more raising their hands)
Good. Put your hands down. You want to know why your kids act like they do? Because 
the world occurs for them in such a way that their actions are a perfect correlate. They do 
not do what you tell them to do. No shit. And if you think they’re doing what you tell them 
to do, you’re wrong. Their actions are a correlate of the way the world occurs for them. 
People murder not because they are bad people. Nobody has ever found bad inside anybody. 
People murder because murder is a perfect correlate to a certain kind of occurring. The 
law recognizes that by recognizing self-defense. Never mind how they explain it. Ellen is 
not clumsy. Her actions are perfectly correlated with the way objects occur for her. She’s 
Technology
So long as we do not, through thinking, experi-
ence what is, we can never belong to what will 
be. (Martin Heidegger, “TT” in QCT 49)
“
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 498 ===