=== PAGE 327 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
313
ELYSE
I started to feel sick yesterday, and I wondered what was wrong with me that I was sick, and 
I’m not supposed to be sick. I could hardly sit in the room last night. During the break last 
night we went out for dinner, and I thought “I better go lay down for a while, otherwise I’m not 
going to be able to make it, I’m not going to be able to pay attention to what’s happening, I’m 
not going to be able to do it.” And I couldn’t see what I couldn’t be with, and fi nally it struck 
me. What I couldn’t be with is—because I’d been thinking: “what’s my racket?” I thought that 
my racket was that I couldn’t be with how much people loved me because I was afraid that 
people didn’t love me, and I saw that that wasn’t my racket at all. My racket is that I’ve had no 
capacity to be with how much I love people and express that. I’ve said it like a concept, and I 
have to do things in order to express my love for people rather than “be” my love for people. 
And I still feel sick, and I have an incredible life and I can hardly be with that.
KIPP
Well, it makes you wrong. 
MARGARET
Yes, absolutely. It’s amazing. I wake up every morning and I think, “this isn’t my life, this is 
someone else’s life. Somebody’s going to fi nd out about me and they’re going to pull the rug, 
and it’s not going to be there anymore, and it’s all going to be fucked.”
KIPP
Well, it already is.
(laughter)
See, if you recall the conversation we started having last night, the clearing that it is to be a 
human being that you live in: “there’s something wrong.”
MARGARET
There is. Absolutely.
KIPP
Yeah. And it’s not conceptual. You are “there’s something wrong.” You’ve also made that mean 
something. Not only is something wrong, it means something that there’s something wrong. 
MARGARET
It shouldn’t be that way.
KIPP
What else?
The ‘scandal of philosophy’ is not that this 
proof has yet to be given, but that such proofs 
are expected and attempted again and again. 
[. . .] If Dasein is understood correctly, it defies 
such proofs, because, in its Being, it already 
is what subsequent proofs deem necessary to 
demonstrate for it. (BT 249
T
)
“
That is, one always knows the world from the position of already 
being out there in it.
When Dasein directs itself toward something
and grasps it, it does not somehow first get
out of an inner sphere in which it has been
proximally encapsulated, but its primary
kind of Being is such that it is always ‘outside’ 
alongside entities which it encounters and 
s
which belong to a world already discovered.
(BT 89, emphasis added
T
)
“
On the other hand, there is certainly a sense in which we are 
inside:
[E]ven in this ‘being-outside’ alongside
the object, Dasein is still ‘inside,’ if we 
understand this in the correct sense; that is
to say, it is itself ‘inside’ as a Being-in-the-
world which knows. And furthermore, the
perceiving of what is known is not a process 
of returning with one’s booty to the ‘cabinet’ 
of consciousness aft er one has gone out and
grasped it; even in perceiving, retaining, and 
preserving, the Dasein which knows remains
outside, and does so as Dasein. (BT 89
T
)
“
So the inside/outside dilemma is a false problem. Human beings
know their world through existing in it and coping with it.


=== END OF PAGE 327 ===