=== PAGE 450 ===

436
SPEAKING BEING
And all you’ve had so far to operate from in life is your mind. All you’ve had is your reasons, 
your thoughts, your feelings, your considerations, for action. It’s all you’ve been given by hu-
man being to do something: You’ve had to decide and have a reason for your actions. But as you 
have demonstrated for us, we can distinguish that choice is based on what? It’s based on...
BILL
Your choice.
KIPP
Exactly. It’s simply your choice. Now which is more risky? A decision or a choice?
BILL
Choice.
KIPP
Exactly. Because as long as you have your reasons, if it doesn’t go well, if it goes a way it
shouldn’t have gone, you can always say “See, it didn’t work out! Why?” That’s why people get 
married. “Let’s see. I’ll get married because you’re nice looking, and we get along, and you want
to live in the same city I do, and all that other stuff , and then, when something happens and
the reasons for doing something stop being present in your life, well then, you question your 
marriage, because your marriage isn’t based on you, you never got married. What got married
was your reasons. That’s not called a marriage, that’s called an entanglement. You see, you’ve
never chosen to work where you work. You wonder why you have no power where you work?
Because you’re not there. What’s got you there are your reasons. No power here, just force: just
trying to move around the reasons.
(to Bill)
Bill, you did an extraordinary job. And why you did an extraordinary job is because you were
absolutely authentic about it.
BILL
Thank you.
KIPP
Why I appreciate it and why everyone in the room appreciates it is because you never stopped
looking and inquiring. Most people, when they don’t see it right away...
(referring to the quote Erhard read from On the Way to Language)
Heidegger says that the kind of beings that human beings are, we’re born thinking that we 
comprehend everything, you know, everything is comprehendible. And so if something 
is not comprehendible, the best we can do is be off ended by it. We’re off ended by what we 
KIPP (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 450 ===