=== PAGE 528 ===

514
SPEAKING BEING
WALT
It is... for me.
ERHARD
You have to free yourself, not limit yourself. You want to limit yourself: That’s what you want to 
do—you want to limit yourself to be sure. You don’t want to take the risk of letting yourself be 
free inside the possibilities you create. You want to limit your actions to make sure you realize 
your goal. That is not this course. That’s a “Success” course.
WALT
So if I’m going to stay with it here, stay on board, really...
ERHARD
Give yourself some freedom. Create the possibility and then operate out of that possibility. 
Operate on what? Whatever the hell’s in front of you, do whatever you do. Stop complicating 
it. You’re back in the fi rst day now. You’re asking how to proceed. You’re asking for the 
prescription. You go left and then you go right, that’s how you get there; but the real way to 
get there is going wherever you’re going. Do whatever you’re doing. Don’t do what you’re not 
doing. It’s real easy to follow that instruction. 
WALT
And that’s enough?
ERHARD
That’s enough. Who would tell a guy like you that what you need to do is to box yourself in? The 
degree to which you need to be boxed in is the degree to which you need to be narrowed. You’re 
going to handle that without any help from anybody. Don’t you understand, Walt, I’m not going to 
tell you: “Walt, what has to happen is that the sun’s gotta come up tomorrow morning!” That’s going 
to happen anyhow. You don’t need to take my time, and I don’t need to take your time to have that 
discussion. You don’t need to take our time to have the discussion you want to have, you’re going to 
do that anyhow. You’ll get enough of that mixed into the stew. You’ll take care of that. You’re thrown 
to that. 
WALT
Yeah I am.
ERHARD
Yeah, you’re thrown to that. We don’t talk about what you’re thrown to. It’s not that we don’t 
need what you’re thrown to. We do, but why talk about it? We’re going to get that anyhow.
WALT
I was trying to address something else. I was trying to address what you put out there.
At this point, for Heidegger, we let slip our own essential 
role as the beings with meaning, the beings for whom Being is an 
issue, the clearing in the world for beings to be the beings they 
are. “Being’s coming to presence needs the coming to presence 
of man, in order to remain kept safe as Being. . .” (“TT” in QCT 38). 
But as enframing, we forfeit our role as safekeeper. Lost in the 
machinations of the cybernetic system, we not only let the truth of 
Being fall into oblivion, but we let fall into oblivion the knowledge 
that we have done so, until finally, oblivion itself is forgotten, 
and we forget that anything has been lost. “The most profound 
oblivion,” says Heidegger, “is not-recollecting” (EP 63).
As evidence that this is already the condition in our world, we 
cite the diff iculty that is inevitably encountered in any discussion 
of Being, for example, the recurring sense in reading this book of 
“What the hell are we talking about?” Being in our time, so goes 
Heidegger’s persistent complaint, cannot be recollected, let alone 
spoken. ■


=== END OF PAGE 528 ===