=== PAGE 334 ===

320
SPEAKING BEING
like in order to pay you back for this gift you’ve given me. And what I got yesterday is that I 
don’t owe you anything. I owe you nothing. And you’ve always told me “you owe me nothing.” 
But I couldn’t quite get that without this piece of it. And now I’m wholly complete with that I 
owe you nothing. And I am complete that I am participating in this work to pay you back for 
something or in order to something...
ERHARD
You can’t give when you owe. Paying back is not a very powerful expression. Giving is a more 
powerful expression than paying back.
WALKER
So we’re even.
ERHARD  (to laughter)
Deal. By the way I didn’t say I owed you nothing. I said I promised you nothing. It’s a
throwaway.
WALKER
In a very real way, who you have been being for me is my father. Like trying to get something 
from you, trying to pay something back to you. So I want to thank you for the opportunity to be 
in The Forum and the opportunity to complete that. 
ERHARD
Thank you.
KIPP
See, participation begins when you have no reason to participate. What you call participation 
has always been in-order-to... That’s not participation. That’s some kind of entanglement. Some 
kind of a deal, strategy, tactic—not participation: Can you even imagine participating for no 
reason?
ERHARD
You can’t imagine anything for no reason. You really can’t imagine anything for no reason. You 
know it sounds like we keep insulting you, like when I told somebody they haven’t lived yet. 
Insulting, right? Except everything in the world for you is in-order-to, and nothing is for itself: 
that’s not to have lived yet. If everything is in-order-to, you’ve never gotten anything for itself, 
you know, the thing itself, as itself. Like another person as that other person; not the other 
person in-order-to. It’s a very diff erent context. Remember what we said about “tall” and the 
context in which “tall” shows up? Other people in-order-to don’t look like other people as them-
selves. Even a tree in-order-to does not look like a tree as a tree. Love in-order-to is not love, it’s 
something else: It’s called love in-order-to. It’s not love. People who only know love in-order-to, 
do not know what love is.
In Being and Time, Heidegger has shed light on this
phenomenon, which has gained special significance given 
our recent encounter with the most implacable of limits. For 
Heidegger, this call reaches Dasein and turns it toward its end, 
toward the possibility of its impossibility, the Nothing. Anxiety 
then is the correlative attunement in which the call is heard—at 
that moment when we find our limit. It is in this attunement that 
Being-in-the-world is disclosed as entirely unrecognizable within 
any familiar rubric. Thus, the call of conscience cannot be said. 
It comes from a strange, unrecognizable domain. The call, when 
heard, is uncanny (Unheimlich). 
What is the Uncanny?
For Heidegger, uncanniness refers to the human relation to death, 
to the possibility of our non-existence, and our tendency to 
flee from an authentic confrontation with Being-towards-
the-end. This tendency to flee is not surprising, given “the 
everyday publicness of the ‘they,’ which brings tranquillized
self-assurance—‘Being-at-home,’ with all its obviousness—into 
the average everydayness of Dasein” (BT 233).
T
In an authentic 
confrontation, for instance, here in Session One of Day Four of 
The Forum, even “as Dasein falls, anxiety brings it back from its 
absorption in the ‘world.’ Everyday familiarity collapses. Dasein 
has been individualized, but individualized as Being-in-the-
world” (BT 233). Everything that had heretofore supported the
T
self-understood existence that constituted our self falls away. 
There is no “you” there, nor is there an “I”; only Being-in-the-
WALKER (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 334 ===