=== PAGE 311 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Four 
297
being is not like that quite. There’s causality too, but there’s a more subtle relationship, one of 
context and content. Contexts don’t cause contents. The relationship is not one of causality. It’s 
a diff erent relationship. But it’s like cause and eff ect, but not the same. 
SUZANNE
I’m equating achievement as power.
ERHARD
I don’t have any problem with that. However, achievement, even as power, in the context 
“there’s something wrong,” each achievement reinforces the context: the more achievement, 
the stronger, more forceful the context. As you build content, you validate the context. So for 
example, if I say two, and three, they’re content in the context called numbers. You follow that?
SUZANNE
Yes I follow that.
ERHARD
Very good. If I go on to seventy-four, ninety-nine, one third, and three point one four, I’ve 
expanded the amount of content, and by doing so I’ve validated the context called numbers. The 
context called numbers has gotten stronger and stronger. Even if the content is empowering, 
nevertheless the context is more and more validated. Clear?
SUZANNE
There is an aspect in that logic on what’s wrong: that area I’d like to explore. 
ERHARD
Please.
SUZANNE
I don’t see... I still don’t understand that statement. I’d like to go deeper. But then, not that 
I’m confused. I got an equation of the earlier, I never, I don’t want to share. But this particular 
premise strikes me because of achievement, the word achievement I equate with power.
ERHARD
First off , you’ve got your foot nailed to the fl oor about achievement a little bit—like some of you 
had your foot nailed to the fl oor about God and some of you had your foot nailed to the fl oor 
about sincerity—it’s kind of like you have idolized accomplishment a bit. Accomplishment is 
kind of like the Holy Grail for you. A little bit, and so it makes the conversation a little bit hard 
for you to hear. A little bit it sounds like I’m denigrating accomplishment. I’m actually not 
denigrating accomplishment, but never mind, it sounds like I am. Does it not?
SUZANNE
It did at the beginning.
attainment of the clearing of aletheia (please see the sidebar “The 
Three Levels of Truth” in Session Two of Day Four). Both positive 
and negative, emergence and concealment, violence and aletheia, 
are constitutive of Being. This idea is worked out most fully in 
Heidegger’s conception of the “Nothing.” ■


=== END OF PAGE 311 ===