=== PAGE 486 ===

472
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
Can you hear the craziness in that? If you’re a nobody trying to be somebody, every action 
to be a somebody reinforces that you’re nobody. Every time you succeed in being somebody, 
it reinforces that you’re nobody. Only people who are nobody try to be somebody. It’s the 
whole thing I told you in that short piece I did with you about empty and meaningless: 
Even the accomplishments are empty and meaningless, because Nick’s accomplishments 
are all in order to be somebody, and each accomplishment simply reinforces that he’s 
nobody. Only nobody tries to be somebody. A somebody doesn’t try to be somebody. They 
are somebody. You’re not trying to be somebody. Only people who are nobody are trying to 
be somebody.
NICK
And that is the thing I was going to say. I’ve got a list of accomplishments that, I mean, I’ve got 
a good list of accomplishments. And the way that lives for me is that the past invalidates right 
now. And the future, like my dreams or my—nothing highfalutin like a vision—like the thing 
Wes was chasing around yesterday, the carrot, all that invalidates right now. It’s not only robbed 
me of satisfaction: I was looking at the cost, and clearly happiness is a cost. It also costs me 
vitality. I never saw that before. I’m tired all the time. 
ERHARD
Sit in the chair and try real hard for about fi ve minutes. It’s a big strain trying. Being is no strain 
at all. Trying is very stressful. Work is not stressful. Trying is stressful.
NICK
That was one side of the sword. The other side is I don’t know what makes a somebody 
somebody, but whatever the measure is that someone could come up with, I’m somebody. The 
other side of the insanity is denying who I am and what that cuts off  is my self-expression. So by 
not being myself, and having...
ERHARD
So what you want to get is that the whole conversation is crazy. Being nobody trying to be 
somebody and denying that he’s somebody. 
NICK
This is the insanity wrapped in the craziness. Werner, I just thank you for the profound 
privilege of participating in this work. I can see that who I have been is wanting to be anywhere 
but here. The only thing that’s diff erent is me. 
ERHARD
By the way, for those of you who were in Beyond the Winning Formula, this is the other side 
of “and yet.” One side is the experience of “I’ve accomplished this, and yet...” This is, “I didn’t 
accomplish this, and yet...”
Today, as we gather and order the phenomena in our world, we 
take for granted that they are. Beyond that, their Being is a matter 
with which we don’t concern ourselves.
That we don’t, according to Heidegger, is an outcome 
of developments in Greek thinking, and ultimately Western 
understanding, beginning with the thinking of the pre-Socratics. 
For Heidegger, this period has brought forth the beginning of 
philosophy—“one of the few great things of humanity” (IM 17)—
and also the beginning of its end. It bears repeating that “The 
great begins great, sustains itself through the free recurrence of 
greatness, and if it is great, also comes to an end in greatness. So it 
is with the philosophy of the Greeks” (IM 17). 
Greek thinking began as “the first and definitive unfolding 
of Western philosophy . . . when questioning about beings as 
such and as a whole received its true inception” (IM 15). But on 
Heidegger’s view, it “came to an end in greatness with Aristotle” 
(IM 17). Within two centuries, Greek philosophy had already begun 
digging the “ruts of metaphysics.”
What happened? For Heidegger, the evolution of Western 
thinking was an evolution in language; and here he turns 
specifically to the complex of terms that cluster around the Greek 
word on. Simply put, this is the noun-form derived from the verb 
to be (i.e., being; the plural is onta). But for Heidegger’s purposes, 
putting it simply is not an option, which he explains here:
Thus on says “being” in the sense of to be a 
being; at the same time it names a being which
is. In the duality of the participial significance
of on the distinction between “to be” and “a 
being” lies concealed. What is here set forth,
which at first may be taken for grammatical 
hair-splitting, is in truth the riddle of Being.
(EGT 32–33)
“
Even in contemporary English usage, we can identify examples 
of the ambiguity Heidegger is pointing out here. If I tell a friend, 
“You are stingy,” that friendship may be at risk. But if my friend 


=== END OF PAGE 486 ===