=== PAGE 326 ===

312
SPEAKING BEING
Being-in-the-World: World
The Forum promises participants a transformed perspective
on their lives, which is to say their Being-in-the-world. Martin 
Heidegger hyphenated this phrase in his writing to indicate that 
the phenomenon must be seen as a whole, as a unitary structure. 
However, he said, its parts could be considered separately for 
emphasis. Previously, in Session One of Day One, we examined 
Being-in, and in Session One of Day Two, Being-with. Here we 
consider Heidegger’s view of world. 
Inside/Outside
In the Cartesian model of reality, the model that for the most part 
determines the way contemporary human beings understand our 
relation to the world, knowledge arises from an encounter between 
subject and object: the “I”—the human subject, the being that 
knows—encounters and comes to know the objects, and thus the 
world. 
Martin Heidegger’s model of human being as Dasein 
challenges this tradition: Dasein and its world do not correspond 
to subject and object (BT 87). Knowledge, in the sense that Dasein
T
knows the world, does not result from a human subject’s coming 
to understand an objective world separate from itself. 
For Heidegger, the assumptions of the Cartesian model were 
problematic. That model presupposes that reality consists of an 
“outer” realm (that which becomes known, Nature, the objective 
world), and a separate “inner” realm of subjectivity that does the
knowing. This inner realm is in some way distinct from the outer 
realm that contains everything else; but it is somehow able to
escape its inner realm so that it can get outside and, well, know.
The problem of inner and outer, and the search for a proof 
of the “Dasein of things outside me,” has concerned philosophy 
since Descartes. But, says Heidegger, if there is such a problem, it 
lies with the question itself.
MARGARET  (continuing to laugh)
h
...and I shared my racket with him and I said “and furthermore, it’s your racket, too!” It was so 
freeing. I mean it was so great to be straight with him. I said “You keep me around. Our sex wasn’t 
that great, so you keep me massaging your racket every now and again. You liked that better 
than me massaging your penis.” I mean I was able to be so straight with him. “You want me to 
massage your case and you didn’t want anything else. And same with me: I have you buy me off  
every once and a while. You buy me wonderful gifts. It’s exactly what we’ve always wanted!”
(laughter)
So that was that on that, and I just noticed...
(more laughter)
And he said, “You mean behind that, I don’t really want a relationship?” and I said, “You 
should move to California to be with me...”
(laughter)
There was no hook to it anymore. But I run it with everybody, that my life isn’t quite right. I 
started dating some great guys about four months ago. Really great guys, but it can’t be that 
great. I’m a runner and hurt my leg, and so I’ve gained a little weight, and so now I’ve got that 
schtick going: I can’t not have a schtick about things not being quite right. It’s disgusting! You 
know, I never have to be responsible for producing at the level of who I am for my job, ever. 
Someone can’t stab into me because they know how much I’ve already sacrifi ced.
KIPP
This is an important part because: some of you are successful and the success keeps the wolves 
off  your back. The results are part of the racket, and that’s why there’s no satisfaction in them. 
The results are there to avoid the domination; they are not results that leave you satisfi ed, no, 
they are there to avoid the responsibility of ever really being responsible. “Don’t touch me, 
because I’m the best you’ve got.”
MARGARET
Right. It’s horrible. Yeah, and I see the only way to do it is to state that I’m full of it, and “You 
can hold me to account, whether I don’t like it, whether I get snarly, hold me to account.” You 
know, my life is brilliant, it works, I’ve got the best life there could be. I really do. And yet I run 
this racket as good as anyone. Better.
(laughter)
And then I noticed, where are the miracles? Well, this morning I went for a run and it was 
eff ortless! I should have been late with all that I did this morning, but I was on time. I stopped 
eating last night when I was full. I even made my deep, profound commitment to ending hun-
ger on the planet into an in-order-to, an in-order-to be liked, to make it, and to sacrifi ce: “oh 
woe is me.” And that’s ridiculous.
KIPP  (applause as Margaret sits
(
)s
Thank you very much.


=== END OF PAGE 326 ===