=== CHAPTER 2: Chapter 2 ===

Pages: 6-437
Total pages: 432

============================================================

=== PAGE 6 ===

Cover design: Tom Greensfelder
Cover image: © Ralf Hiemisch/Getty Images
Copyright © 2019 by Drew Kopp and Bruce Hyde. All rights reserved.
Published by John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Hoboken, New Jersey.
Published simultaneously in Canada.
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying,
recording, scanning, or otherwise, except as permitted under Section 107 or 108 of the 1976 United States Copyright Act, without either the prior written
permission of the Publisher, or authorization through payment of the appropriate per-copy fee to the Copyright Clearance Center, Inc., 222 Rosewood Drive, 
Danvers, MA 01923, (978) 750–8400, fax (978) 646–8600, or on the Web at www.copyright.com. Requests to the Publisher for permission should be addressed 
to the Permissions Department, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 111 River Street, Hoboken, NJ 07030, (201) 748–6011, fax (201) 748–6008, or online at www.wiley.
com/go/permissions.
Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of Warranty: While the publisher and author have used their best eff orts in preparing this book, they make no representations 
or warranties with respect to the accuracy or completeness of the contents of this book and specifi cally disclaim any implied warranties of merchantability or 
fi tness for a particular purpose. No warranty may be created or extended by sales representatives or written sales materials. The advice and strategies contained
herein may not be suitable for your situation. You should consult with a professional where appropriate. Neither the publisher nor author shall be liable for any 
loss of profi t or any other commercial damages, including but not limited to special, incidental, consequential, or other damages.
For general information on our other products and services or for technical support, please contact our Customer Care Department within the United States at
(800) 762–2974, outside the United States at (317) 572–3993, or fax (317) 572–4002.
Wiley publishes in a variety of print and electronic formats and by print-on-demand. Some material included with standard print versions of this book may 
not be included in e-books or in print-on-demand. If this book refers to media such as a CD or DVD that is not included in the version you purchased, you may 
download this material at http://booksupport.wiley.com. For more information about Wiley products, visit www.wiley.com.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Names: Kopp, Drew, author. | Hyde, Bruce, author. | Zimmerman, Michael E.,
   1946- author of afterword.  
Title: Speaking being : Werner Erhard, Martin Heidegger, and a new 
   possibility of being human / Drew Kopp and Bruce Hyde ; afterword by 
   Michael E. Zimmerman.  
Description: Hoboken, New Jersey : Wiley, [2019] | Includes bibliographical 
   references and index. 
Identifi ers: LCCN 2019020014 (print) | LCCN 2019980338 (ebook) | ISBN 
   9781119549901 (paperback) | ISBN 9781119670049 (epub) | ISBN 
   9781119550211 (pdf)  
Subjects: LCSH: Erhard, Werner, 1936- | Heidegger, Martin,
   1889-1976—Infl uence. | Werner Erhard and Associates. Forum (1989 : San
   Francisco, Calif.) | Ontology. | Rhetoric—Philosophy. |
   Self-actualization (Psychology) 
Classifi cation: LCC BD331 .K6484 2019  (print) | LCC BD331  (ebook) | DDC
   111—dc23 
LC record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2019020014
LC ebook record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2019980338
SPEAKING BEING: Werner Erhard, Martin Heidegger, and a New Possibility of Being Human, written by Dr. Bruce Hyde and Dr. Drew Kopp, includes material 
and ideas originally developed by Werner Erhard and owned by Landmark Worldwide, such material and ideas which the authors have juxtaposed with the 
thinking of Martin Heidegger in an eff ort to illuminate both thinkers. The views and arguments expressed in this book in reference to the material and ideas are 
the sole responsibility of the authors and were not written by, nor are they endorsed by, Landmark, its affi  liates, or its predecessors.
LANDMARK and LANDMARK WORLDWIDE are registered trademarks of Landmark Worldwide LLC (“Landmark”). The 1989 Forum, The Landmark 
Forum, and other programs presented by Landmark, its affi  liates, and its predecessors are proprietary to Landmark and protected by international intellectual
property laws. Materials and quotations from such courses in this book are the copyright of Landmark, are used with permission, and may not be reproduced
without the prior written permission of Landmark.
Landmark wishes to make the materials, concepts, and information that constitute its programs, as well as the way in which these are assembled and presented,
available to academics for examination, study, research, and comment. As such, academics are invited to quote from the Landmark material, with attribution 
to Landmark, and are not required to have Landmark’s prior written permission to do so
Printed in the United States of America
10   9   8   7   6   5   4   3   2   1


=== END OF PAGE 6 ===

=== PAGE 7 ===

To the students in my Communication Studies classes at St. Cloud State University, who for the past twenty-five years have been 
my partners in the play and mystery of ontological inquiry; and to my wife Susan Saetre, my constant guardian angel.
BRUCE
To my friend and writing partner, Bruce Hyde (1941-2015), who blazed a trail with his unrelenting commitment to communicate 
the unsaid. What a gift  to have worked with a man of such brilliance, humor, and courage, even unto death, and with this book,
Bruce will continue to speak to each reader willing to take up the call to enter the conversation this book is but a fragment of.
I also dedicate this book to my students, ever my co-experimenters in the inquiry of what it means to be a writer and a reader; 
and to my wife Cindy, and my children, Tristan and Cassidy: I dedicate the fruits of my labor to your future.
DREW


=== END OF PAGE 7 ===

=== PAGE 8 ===



=== END OF PAGE 8 ===

=== PAGE 9 ===

Contents 
vii
CONTENTS
ABOUT THE AUTHORS 
ix
INTRODUCTION 
1
Day One: Session One 
7
Talking about Being  8
Dasein  12
Two Theses  14
Ontological Dialogue  16
Being-in-the-World: Being-in 20
Mood 24
Interval: Hints: Ontological Distinctions 32
Day One: Session Two 
34
Philosophy as Rhetorical Evocation  35
Getting It and Losing It  44
Authenticity  54
Interval: Dasein: Meaning and Mineness  58
Day One: Session Three 
60
Interval: Yankelovich Study Results  62
Day One: Session Four 
68
Concern 73
Already Always Listening  75
Interval: Jargon 78
Day One: Session Five 
80
End of Day One Interval: Refl exion: The Cartesian Defi ciency  86
Day Two: Session One 
89
Being-in-the-World: Being-With 92
Giving and Refl exion  103
The They-Self 107
Interval: Hermeneutic Phenomenology  116
Day Two: Session Two 
120
Thinking  121
Heidegger’s Pedagogy 127
Solicitude of a Forum Leader  132
Interval: The Forgetting of Being, Part One of Eight: 
Getting and Losing 136
Day Two: Session Three 
138
Social Moods 156
Thrownness 159
Day Two: Session Four 
166
End of Day Two Interval: The Forgetting of Being, Part Two of Eight:
Questioning  168
Day Three: Session One 
171
In-Order-To  172
Awakening Attunements 185
Interval: The Forgetting of Being, Part Three of Eight: Heidegger’s Etymologies  196
Day Three: Session Two 
198
Danger: Attunements and Moods  200
Interval: The Forgetting of Being, Part Four of Eight: The Pre-Socratics 208
Day Three: Session Three
212
Choice  217
The Violence of Meaning  226
The Same 237
God  259 
Interval: The Forgetting of Being, Part Five of Eight: Physis  264
Day Three: Session Four 
268
Waiting for the Leap  284
A Violent Way 292
End of Day Three Interval: The Forgetting of Being, Part Six of Eight: Saying Nothing  308
Day Four: Session One 
311
Being-in-the-World: World  312
The Uncanny 319
The Call of Conscience  332
What is Said When Conscience Calls? 342
Nothing: Beyond Nihilism 358
Interval: The Forgetting of Being, Part Seven of Eight: Logos  372
Day Four: Session Two 
376
The Three Levels of Truth  377
Primordial Metaphor: Clearing  397
The Drift 409
“Way of Being” and the “Nature of Being for Human Beings” 418
Interval: The Forgetting of Being, Part Eight of Eight: The Heart of the Matter 448
Day Four: Session Three 
450
A Substance Ontology  472
Event Ontology 479
Technology 484 
Techne 492
Enframing  499
The Oblivion of Oblivion  510
Transformation as Technology  519
End of Day Four Interval: Technology of Transformation 530
AFTERWORD BY MICHAEL E. ZIMMERMAN 
532 
REFERENCES 
543
INDEX 
547


=== END OF PAGE 9 ===

=== PAGE 10 ===



=== END OF PAGE 10 ===

=== PAGE 11 ===

About the Authors 
ix
ABOUT THE AUTHORS
BRUCE HYDE  (PhD, University of Southern California, 1990) was a Professor of 
Communication Studies at St. Cloud State University until his death on October 
13th, 2015 (1941-2015). His primary interests as an educator were with the 
ontological dimensions of language and communication, and with dialogue as a
non-polarized and non-polarizing form of public discourse.
DREW KOPP  (PhD, University of Arizona, 2009) is an Associate Professor of 
Writing Arts at Rowan University. His research interests focus on the theory and
history of rhetorical pedagogies, and he has published articles in journals in the
field of rhetoric and writing studies, including Rhetoric Review (2013), and
w
JAC:
Rhetoric, Writing, Culture, Politics (2012). He has also contributed a chapter to the
edited collection Disrupting Pedagogies in the Knowledge Society (2011).
y


=== END OF PAGE 11 ===

=== PAGE 12 ===

x 
Praise for Speaking Being
From the Aft erword:
I regard Speaking Being as an enormously important contribution to understanding 
Heidegger and Erhard. The latter has received far too little serious academic 
attention, and this book begins to make up for that lack. Moreover, the book’s 
analysis of Heidegger’s thought is among the best that I have ever read. I commend
this book to all readers without reservation.
MICHAEL E. ZIMMERMAN, Professor Emeritus, University of Colorado, Boulder
This book is powerful, imaginative, frustrating, amusing, threatening, and 
enlightening—all at the same time. It also has the power to transform your life.
JONATHAN D. MORENO, University of Pennsylvania Professor of Ethics, 
author of Impromptu Man
The profound impact of Werner Erhard’s work on culture and society is a
manifestation of an incredible insight, the experience of being, presented in 
this book through a comparative analysis of a transcript of a 1989 Forum led by 
Erhard alongside Heidegger’s reflections on the meaning of “being there.” The
authors have drawn amazing parallels between these two extraordinary thinkers 
and have demonstrated the intersections of Heidegger’s language with Erhard’s 
ontological rhetoric of transformation. Erhard has at times described aspects of his 
method as ruthless compassion, and like all forms of compassion, evident here is a
fundamental motivating desire to alleviate the suff ering of others. 
JAMES R. DOTY, MD, Founder and Director, The Center for Compassion and Altruism
Research and Education, Professor of Neurosurgery, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, and Senior Editor of  The Oxford Handbook of Compassion Science
Speaking Being is not a book. It is a multimodal tour de force of ontological rhetoric
that hails its reader into an event and in so doing performs as an event, rather 
than what is commonly rendered as a book between two covers. Its status as an 
event is performed on every page wherein the “showing” of Being is enacted via 
its remarkable design. Kaleidoscopically, Bruce Hyde and Drew Kopp have drawn 
their readers into a dazzling display, where the participants in dialogue with Werner 
Erhard in a specific Forum in 1989 are put into dialogue with Martin Heidegger. The 
result is arguably one of the most astounding academic interventions into both 
Erhard’s methodology and Heideggerian thought. Citing David Farrell Krell, Hyde 
and Kopp remind us that “to be on a woodpath means to be in a cul-de-sac, a path
that leads nowhere and has no exit.” Speaking Being puts its readers in a dizzying 
cul-de-sac within which they may never leave, but rather transform into one of the
glittering particles of this rhetorical kaleidoscope. 
CYNTHIA HAYNES, Professor of English, Clemson University, author of  The Homesick 
Phone Book: Addressing Rhetoric in the Age of Perpetual Conflict
Theory and Practice: Ways of seeing what one claims to be the truth of some
intended object of consciousness and ways of applying this truth to one’s 
everyday existence in order to cultivate wisdom, goodness, self-realization, and 
justice. The dialogical teachings of Werner Erhard speak to the importance of this 
relationship and its ontological significance. Professors Hyde and Kopp, scholars 
of rhetoric and communication who had observed and participated in programs 
designed by Erhard, provide comprehensive and detailed conversations—what 
they term “ontological rhetoric”—that took place in Erhard’s 1989 Forum, and they 
demonstrate how Erhard and Heidegger can be read together for the benefit of 
both. This book is a major achievement in the scholarship of Erhard and Heidegger 
studies. A much-needed moment of enlightenment.
MICHAEL J. HYDE, University Distinguished Professor of Communication Ethics, Wake 
Forest University, author of Perfection: Coming to Terms with Being Human
In Speaking Being the reader discovers two original thinkers—Werner Erhard 
and Martin Heidegger—two intellects who independently reached linguistic, 
ontological, and phenomenological philosophies that illuminate each other. 
PRAISE FOR SPEAKING BEING: WERNER ERHARD, MARTIN HEIDEGGER, 
AND A NEW POSSIBILITY OF BEING HUMAN


=== END OF PAGE 12 ===

=== PAGE 13 ===

 
Praise for Speaking Being
xi
Authors Hyde and Kopp accomplish the formidable task of masterfully presenting 
Erhard and Heidegger side by side in a readable, lively, and illuminating text. There 
is nothing quite like it!
JERONIMA (JERI) ECHEVERRIA, Professor of History and Provost Emerita, California 
State University at Fresno, former Executive Vice-Chancellor for Academic Aff airs of 
the California State University System
Educational research confirms that without a significant intervention, students 
who become teachers are likely to replicate the pedagogical approaches their 
teachers used with them. Practicing Erhard’s approach to ontological inquiry—
presented in print for the first time in this book—provides such an intervention. 
It equips students, teachers, academics of any field to critically examine their 
dispositions and access more eff ective ways of being and acting. Speaking Being is
a must read for scholars of social foundations of education, teacher education, and
frankly, for members of any field of study.
CAROLYNE J. WHITE, Professor of Social Foundations, Department of Urban 
Education, Rutgers University Newark
A diff erent you and a diff erent me must show up each day if we are going to
tackle the world’s most vexing problems. This book talks us through a process of 
transformation by showing us what it means to be an authentic human being in an
inauthentic world, and what it means to take a stand for a world where everyone
matters and where everyone can make a diff erence. 
WILEY “CHIP” SOUBA, MD, SCD, MBA, Professor of Surgery, Geisel School 
of Medicine at Dartmouth, former Dean of Medicine and VP for Health Aff airs,
Dartmouth College
This engaging study of Erhard’s counter-discursive approach to transformational 
education—and how this approach aligns significantly with Heidegger’s thinking—
might serve as a starting point for a deeper Indigenous philosophy. Rooted in a
more non-hierarchical epistemology, such an Indigenous philosophy promises to
move us away from a colonized and deeply problematized way of thinking, toward 
embracing the power and mysteriousness of presence, and making possible a
place-based, non-anthropocentric interconnectedness. This is the next essential 
step we must take if we are to survive as a species.
FOUR ARROWS, AKA DON TRENT JACOBS, PHD, EdD, editor of Unlearning the
Language of Conquest, author of Point of Departure
f
and Teaching Truly
d
While some readers of Speaking Being may be familiar with The Landmark Forum, 
most don’t know its connections to the philosophical tradition. Hyde and Kopp 
have woven together concise explanations of Heidegger’s notoriously diff icult 
thinking with an actual transcript of Erhard’s Forum—by turns moving, funny, and 
shocking. This juxtaposition draws the reader into the experience and powerfully
illuminates the teachings of these two thinkers.
DAVID STOREY, Associate Professor, Boston College, author of 
Naturalizing Heidegger
Speaking Being presents an ontological play between Erhard, Heidegger, the 
participants of a Forum delivered in 1989, and the reader, who is summoned to 
the scene to dwell in compelling questions and distinctions, the living of which
make available the invention of a life that is experienced as authentic. The
relentless commitment of authors Hyde and Kopp to communicate the unsayable, 
Being, opens up new directions for a rhetoric of emancipation that goes beyond 
traditional critical theories. Speaking Being speaks a new relation to language, one
that honors the unexplored ontological power of language to create a new freedom 
to be, to live with existential courage.
MARGARIDA GARCIA, Vice-Dean, Research and Communications, Faculty of Law 
(Civil Law) and Professor, Faculty of Law (Civil Law) and Faculty of Social Sciences,
University of Ottawa


=== END OF PAGE 13 ===

=== PAGE 14 ===

Many academics in cultural studies accept postmodernity and content pedagogy 
as unquestionable facts of the world, but with a paltry understanding of how these 
ideas undermine our intention to produce morally conscious, action-oriented 
citizens. In their lucid exposition of Werner Erhard’s methodology, Hyde and Kopp 
off er a cogent roadmap out of such a paralyzing paradigm of knowledge and 
subjectivity. Brilliantly, the authors use Martin Heidegger’s writing to illuminate
Erhard’s work and The Forum’s compelling impact on participants. Readers will
discover for themselves, based on the contexts they bring, a powerful pedagogy
of transformation grounded in an ontological inquiry into human being that 
leads students to discover their own paths of social agency and initiative. Highly 
recommended!
TRYSTAN T. COTTEN, Associate Professor, Gender Studies, University of California,
Stanislaus, founder and managing editor of Transgress Press
Speaking Being presents, perhaps for the first time, a complete transcript of an 
actual Forum led by Werner Erhard, allowing the reader to directly observe and 
experience the unique power of dialogue as a tool for human transformation. 
Furthermore, authors Hyde and Kopp provide an intellectually satisfying
correlation between the philosophical ideas of Martin Heidegger and the out-here-
in-the-world work of Werner Erhard, revealing their surprising complementarity. I
d
congratulate the authors on achieving this tour de force.
MICHAEL LESLIE, Associate Professor, Journalism and Communications,
University of Florida
xii 
Praise for Speaking Being


=== END OF PAGE 14 ===

=== PAGE 15 ===

 
Introduction
1
 Introduction
In 1971, the television debut of All in the Family tickled an American public who
y
was also celebrating the successful moon landing, and safe return home, of two
Apollo space missions. In the same year, much smaller audiences took note of Igor 
Stravinsky’s death and the birth of Calvin Broadus Jr. (aka Snoop Dogg/Lion); a 
marketing phenomenon was born in Seattle with the opening of the first Star-
bucks; Idi Amin ousted Milton Obote to become the dictator of Uganda; and in the
new academic field of composition and rhetoric, a movement to elevate the status 
of process began to stir. Meanwhile, in October of that year in a meeting room of 
San Francisco’s less-than-swank Jack Tar Hotel, Werner Erhard assembled some
two hundred participants for the debut of the est Training. Given this timing for 
the emergence of the est Training, media at the time characterized it as a part of 
t
the human potential movement, but scholar Jonathan Moreno has more recently 
called est “the most important cultural event after the human potential movement
itself seemed exhausted” (Impromptu Man 247).
Infamous for its rigorous ground rules and confrontational methods—
elements Erhard says were necessary in the liberated, let-it-all-hang-out, “new 
age” ethos of the time—the est Training (Latin for
t
it is, and an acronym for Erhard 
Seminars Training) grew in popularity throughout the 1970s because of the im-
pressive benefits participants reported having received, including better relation-
ships and a greater sense of “aliveness.” Trainees experienced being “at cause” 
in the matter of their lives, and having a new sense that their lives could make a
difference in the world. They felt “free to be.” This new sense of responsibility and 
freedom allowed for breakthroughs in communicating with others, and enabled
them to produce results, both personal and professional, that they would previ-
ously have seen as unlikely.
At the source of this educational enterprise was an experience Erhard had 
undergone earlier that year, although he later said it was “not in itself so much an 
experience, as a shift in the context in which he held all process, including experi-
ence” (Bartley 168). In some traditions, such an event might be referred to as an
individual’s having undergone enlightenment; Erhard has called it a transformation.
He was, at this point in his life, a highly successful sales manager and trainer for a 
large publishing company. Further, he had devoted much of the previous decade to 
the rigorous exploration of various systems of enlightenment and personal devel-
opment, from Zen (the essential one, he says) to the Dale Carnegie course and Mind
Dynamics. But one morning in 1971, as he was driving across the Golden Gate Bridge
en route to his office, he suddenly realized that he knew nothing. As he related the
incident to his biographer, William Bartley:
All the things I had ever heard, and read, and all those hours 
of practice, suddenly fell into place. It was so stupidly,
blindingly simple that I could not believe it. I saw that there
were no hidden meanings, that everything was just the 
way that it is, and that I was already all right. . . . I realized 
that I was not my emotions or thoughts. I was not my 
ideas, my intellect, my perceptions, my beliefs. . . . I was 
simply the space, the creator, the source of all that stuff. I
experienced Self as Self in a direct, unmediated way. I didn’t 
just experience Self; I became Self. Suddenly I held all the 
information, the content, in my life in a new way, from a new
mode, a new context. . . .  I am I am. (Bartley 167–168)
In other words, an experience of being. The insight Erhard derived from that ex-
perience subsequently became what thousands of est trainees would spend two
t
weekends and several hundred dollars to “get” for themselves. 
Discussing his work later, Erhard addressed the challenge he had confronted in
attempting to communicate what seemed essentially incommunicable: “You can’t
do this in the ordinary sense of communication: I can’t have it and give it to you. But
I can communicate in a way so that you get an opportunity to realize that you have 
it yourself already. Essentially, this is what the est Training was developed to do. It
t
provides a setting in which this kind of sharing takes place” (Bartley 169).
From the outset, the language of est was central to both its pedagogical process 
and its public image. A fundamental tenet of the est Training, as well as its succes-
t
sor program, The Forum, has been that transformation lives in language, and that 
participants keep the program’s results available in their lives by communicating 
those results with others. At the same time, Erhard’s enterprise has consistently 
eschewed traditional advertising. The only way people have become aware of his 
work has been through hearing about it from their friends, family, or associates. 
The resulting symbiotic relationship—the program survives only when participants 
communicate about it with family and friends, and it is through communicating
about it that participants keep the benefits alive in their experience—has served the 
work well through four decades. By 1985, when the est Training was discontinued
t
and replaced by The Forum, word-of-mouth had brought a half-million people to see
for themselves what this transformation was all about. As of 2019, another 2 million
“


=== END OF PAGE 15 ===

=== PAGE 16 ===

2
SPEAKING BEING
people have graduated from The Forum, either the four-day Forum of Erhard’s time 
through 1991, or the current iteration of the course, the three-day Landmark
Forum (www.landmarkworldwide.com).1
Erhard’s influence on the culture has made itself felt in another way as well. 
During the 1970s, when it sometimes seemed that every fifth person in San Francis-
co was an est graduate, you could generally detect that element of the population
t
by their use of the program’s language, which in casual use began to be heard as
jargon. Erhard’s use of this terminology, however, was highly purposive, and many
of those words and phrases made their way into the public sphere, some to last-
ing effect. An example has been the shift in the popular understanding of the term 
sharing. Before est, people shared a cookie or a bench in the park; what was shared
was divided, and in the process one’s own share was inevitably diminished. But
in the est Training, 
g participants shared their experience, and through sharing, that 
experience was augmented. To share, in the world of est, was to communicate in
such a way that one’s self and not merely one’s story was made available, leaving the
f
other touched rather than merely informed. This meaning of the word, we assert, is 
now common in our culture. Likewise, the term coaching, borrowed by Erhard from
the sports arena in the early eighties to identify the style of his pedagogy, has since
become ubiquitous in the field of management, human resources, and executive 
coaching. And the ubiquitous Mastercard catchphrase, “Master the possibilities,”
was born in the mind of an est graduate for whom the term
t
possibility had acquired
a new level of meaning; however, through overuse in the media, this new level of 
meaning has diminished.
The move to discontinue the Training in 1985 and replace it with The Forum 
arose from Erhard’s perception of a shift in the culture’s way of responding to the 
Training; he wanted to design a course that was responsive to that shift. At this 
point, while Erhard’s success during those years had been greeted by considerable 
media curiosity, scholarly interest was moderate. Several studies of the est Training
t
attempted to measure its effects using a psychological model; while he considered
such efforts valuable, Erhard has asserted that this approach is inappropriate for 
analysis of his work. His work, he says, is not psychological but ontological: his 
concern is the being of human beings (“Heart of the Matter” 1984). He has also 
consistently emphasized that the focus of his work is the development of the lan-
guage in which it is articulated. Yet no significant scholarly work dealing either with
Erhard’s language use, or with the nature of an ontological methodology, has been 
published, even in the academic fields most likely to be deeply concerned with
such matters—rhetoric and writing studies, business management, philosophy, and 
communication studies. This book aims to begin to correct that omission.
Before proceeding, we offer this statement of authorial stance: The authors
have engaged extensively, both as participants and as scholars, in numerous pro-
grams designed by Werner Erhard. The senior author took the est Training for the
t
first time in 1973, and we have each participated a number of times in The Forum, 
both during Erhard’s tenure in the organization and following his departure. Our 
doctoral dissertations (University of Southern California, 1990; University of Arizona,
2008) consisted of rhetorical and philosophical analyses of The Forum. Based upon
this considerable study and experience, our assessment of Erhard’s work is un-
equivocal: we have found this work to be pedagogically effective and intellectually 
significant in all of its historical iterations. Our intention in this book is to stimulate
its serious consideration by the academic community, as well as by others in the
culture at large.
It is also important to note that our approach as participant observers has
its limits. To carry out the design of the book, we have precluded a number of 
approaches that readers may wish to see addressed, and we beg those readers to 
indulge us. Before any significant and critical treatments could be viable, or even 
possible, from a number of disciplines—including philosophy, communication stud-
ies, rhetorical criticism, and so on—the phenomenon must be first made available. 
We present this book as a way into the phenomenon in question, and consequently,
we invite members from a range of academic disciplines to enter the conversation
we are seeking to initiate.
Evolution 
This is an historical document. It presents an account of one moment—albeit a sig-
nificant one—in an ongoing project for the development of human being. The first 
iteration of this project, the est Training, was designed to communicate to people
t
living in the cultural environment of the 1970s. As Erhard saw it, considerable logis-
tical rigor was required for the course to achieve its purpose, and thus the format
included demands for which est soon became notorious, including lengthy sessions
t
1 Landmark describes The Landmark Forum as a personal and professional development program,
based on the discipline of applied ontology and phenomenology. Erhard created the work in the
early 1970s and continued its development until in 1991 Landmark took over its ongoing devel-
opment as expressed in The Landmark Forum and other Landmark programs. As of the writing of 
this book, the material and structure of The Forum have continued to be developed during three 
decades since the 1989 Forum presented in this book. The Landmark Forum of today (circa 2019) 
is less time (three days and an evening and each day ends by 10:00 pm), it incorporates the use of 
PowerPoint displays and videos that enhance the participants’ experience of and access to what is
being presented, and there is no use of profanity on the part of the program leaders.


=== END OF PAGE 16 ===

=== PAGE 17 ===

 
Introduction
3
with limited bathroom breaks, a highly confrontational interaction style—with
the use of expletives—and the surrender of all wristwatches at the door. These
demands were modified when The Forum replaced the Training; and in subsequent 
years, as the communication paradigm of the culture has continued to shift, the 
delivery of The Forum has altered accordingly.
On the one hand, of course, The Forum conversation inevitably challenges 
participants’ familiar way of seeing things. Ontological inquiry—pedagogy such as 
The Forum, that aims to get beyond mere conceptual knowledge—is of necessity 
rigorous and sometimes uncomfortable. In Martin Heidegger’s words, authentic in-
quiry into Being always “has the character of doing violence, whether to the claims 
of the everyday interpretation, or to its complacency and tranquillized obviousness”
(BT 359). But while the conversation in the current Landmark Forum remains rigor-
T
ous, participants will find a presentation that can for the most part be described as 
gentler, and more user-friendly, than the one presented in this book. 
A further aspect of this difference, of course, has to do with Werner Erhard’s
personal style. In his delivery of both the Training and The Forum, Erhard’s com-
munication was edgily playful and relentlessly purposive. He called his approach
ruthless compassion; and it included a profound sense of humor and Socratic 
irony implicit in the human condition. To communicate the humor as well as the 
compassion, he often provoked and insulted participants, using language gener-
ally considered inappropriate for such a setting (in a parody of one of his favorite 
epithets, graduates of the Training were sometimes referred to as “estholes”). Yet, as 
this book shows, those participants who initially resisted these intrusions inevitably
got the message. Erhard has related this confrontive aspect of his communication
to his 1971 experience of transformation: “On the bridge,” he said, “all of a sudden I 
could be 100% responsible for everything in my life, and at the same time none of it 
had any significance. At that point you are free and fearless” (Erhard, interview with 
authors). Erhard’s communication style, and his humor, remain on full display in this 
book; the authors see them as important and entertaining aspects of the historical 
account we are presenting here.
Erhard Encounters Heidegger
Despite the shift we have cited here in The Forum’s style and tone, a central thesis
of this book is that from the first offering of the est Training in 1971, through its
t
replacement by the Forum in 1985 and its current iteration as the Landmark Forum, 
the process at the heart of this pedagogy has retained its transformational
dynamic. This dynamic, as we will show, arises in the unspoken ontological realm
of The Forum conversation as it proceeds, and has been the essential element of the 
course through all of its terminological variations. 
During the transition to The Forum, Erhard excised many of the est Training’s 
t
more meditative exercises and incorporated into the course a new vocabulary and
redesigned procedures, with the stated intention that participants would have an 
enhanced experience of creating a new realm of possibility for themselves and their 
y
lives. At about this time, through colleagues, he was introduced to the work of the
twentieth-century German philosopher Martin Heidegger. Erhard was taken with the 
way Heidegger’s thinking reverberated with his own, and he consulted with several 
Heideggerian scholars on the subject. Two of them—Hubert Dreyfus of University of 
California, Berkeley and Michael E. Zimmerman of Tulane—provided formal assess-
ments of the est Training’s effectiveness, and noted its consistencies with elements 
t
of Heidegger’s thought. When Erhard’s revised technology emerged in The Forum
and other redesigned courses, significant Heideggerian terminology was included 
in its rhetorical mix, and Erhard occasionally read passages from Heidegger in his
presentations.
Most significantly, Erhard saw that Heidegger’s ideas and his own were commu-
nicating from the same unspoken realm, and that the specifications of the two vo-
cabularies could be merged to communicate that realm more powerfully: “I learned
from Heidegger,” said Erhard, “nuances of what I had been saying that clarified and
made more potent what was there” (Erhard, interview with authors). 
What was there was Erhard’s technology of language for the communication of 
being, and its ability, in both the Training and The Forum, to consistently and pow-
erfully evoke an experience that participants found transformative. The evocation
of that experience has remained The Forum’s essential element; Erhard’s encounter 
with Heidegger enriched the vocabulary in which he could see into it more pro-
foundly and communicate it more effectively. 
Technology
The form of this study will be comparative analysis: we will demonstrate that the 
work of Werner Erhard is aligned in significant ways with the philosophy of Martin
Heidegger, and that a comparison of their work illuminates the thinking of both
men. We will show that The Forum’s dialogic form introduces a performative dimen-
sion of Heidegger’s ontological vocabulary in a way that Heidegger himself, working 
within a restrictive academic and political culture, was unable to do. We propose 
that The Forum conversation is ontological rhetoric: purposive speaking that com-
municates and makes present a context of meaning that, if left unexamined, shapes 


=== END OF PAGE 17 ===

=== PAGE 18 ===

4
SPEAKING BEING
thesis is that the work of Werner Erhard makes available the ontological domain of 
language, so that the decentering of subjectivity and the reinvention of the self can
be experienced as possibilities rather than merely considered as theory. 
We recognize that this pedagogical model is in many ways a radical one, given
the strength of the assumptions embedded in our tradition; but Heidegger says that 
an experience with language in the ontological domain always requires “a leap.” 
As our educational institutions struggle increasingly to generate an opening for the
human in the face of the advance of the technological, we argue that the situation is
critical, and that a leap of this kind is in order.
The Plan of the Book
The central text for this book, located in the left and right columns on either page, 
is the combination of two sources: notes taken by the senior author while observing
a Forum in San Francisco led by Werner Erhard in December 1989, and a transcrip-
tion of the video of the same four-day event made available to the junior author on 
location at Landmark Worldwide’s archives. While the transcript provides compre-
hensive and detailed conversations of the actual 1989 Forum, there are important
alterations that must be accounted for. First and foremost, all names have been 
altered except for Werner Erhard, and actual names have been used only for those 
participants who speak more than once or twice with Erhard or the other two indi-
viduals leading the course (“Kipp” and “Wes”). In addition, some conversations have 
been edited out, or summarized, for the sake of space. For instance, all discussions 
dealing with the Six-Day Course, discontinued in 1990, have been removed. Also
missing from the transcript is the Evening Session of the 1989 Forum: there was 
no extant video recording of that event. However, that omission can be rectified 
for interested readers if they were to attend an evening session of The Landmark
Forum, where participants will share their experience of the course for guests they
themselves have invited.
We call the text that accompanies the transcript either “sidebars” or “intervals.” 
Sidebars occur in the central columns between the far left and right panes that 
house the transcript of The Forum, and the intervals occur between sessions of the
course, and at the conclusion of each of the four days. In the sidebars and intervals 
are relevant ideas from the thinking of Martin Heidegger. Sometimes the connection 
between a sidebar and the transcript it accompanies may be apparent; sometimes 
it may be intended obliquely, as a hint at the background. Intervals are more often
oblique in this way due to the focus on Heidegger’s thinking in its wider arcs, for 
and limits our way of being. However, this context of meaning cannot be spoken
directly. It becomes present by virtue of what is said.
The dynamic of Erhard’s technology of language responds directly to issues 
raised by Heidegger in his 1954 essay, “The Question Concerning Technology” (Basic 
Writings). Technology’s essence, proposes Heidegger, is its relentless demand that
all of nature, including human beings, be placed in standing reserve, on call for the
uses of technology itself.  The way of being evoked by this development (i.e., that we 
ourselves function as “calculable material” in a cybernetic system designed to serve 
ourselves) poses the danger that we may become lost in the profound reflexivity of 
that system, and, most fatally, may forget that anything has been lost. Surrender to 
technology “threatens man with the possibility that it could be denied to him to en-
ter into a more original revealing and hence to experience the call of a more primal 
truth” (“QCT” in BW 333). Such surrender, however, seems inevitable: the technolog-
W
ical epoch is where we have landed, the only way of being we have been provided, 
and resistance is as futile as surrender is fatal. 
But Heidegger suggests a middle path, a “comportment toward technology
which expresses ‘yes’ and at the same time ‘no’” (DT 54). Further, he proposes that
T
“essential reflection upon technology and decisive confrontation with it must hap-
pen in a realm that is, on the one hand, akin to the essence of technology, and, on 
the other, fundamentally different from it”(“QCT” in BW 340). We suggest that Wer-
W
ner Erhard’s work provides such a realm. It is both a manifestation of the technolog-
ical epoch and a subversive appropriation of its impulse, a thinking which reaches
beyond the technological paradigm by reaching through that paradigm.
In Academia
 For half a century, postmodern and poststructuralist theories across many disci-
plines have theorized a new freedom from the constraints of the Cartesian model
of human being. Human subjectivity has been decentered; the self is no longer 
understood as the fixed and self-certain cogito but is open to creative reinvention;
language does not merely re-present a preexisting world of objective meanings, but
in fact generates the meanings that constitute that world. 
These theoretical assertions concern being. But their effective communication
in the universities has been hindered by our epistemologically-based academic
tradition, which assumes that the central dynamic of education is knowing. This has 
given rise to a pedagogical model in which the ontological domain must always re-
main merely conceptual, because being is not apprehended by knowing. The book’s


=== END OF PAGE 18 ===

=== PAGE 19 ===

 
Introduction
5
Burke, who, beyond their tireless support, have gathered together a generous read-
ing group. To the group, composed of Allan Cohen, Joe DiMaggio, Bruce Gregory, 
Michael C. Jensen, Sigurfreyr Jonasson, David C. Logan, Nicholas Merton, Daniel 
Rogerson, Steve Zaffron, and Michael E. Zimmerman—we want you to know our im-
measurable joy when we received feedback that could only come from the deepest
appreciation. For granting access to Landmark Worldwide’s archives to allow for the 
production of an accurate and complete transcript, we thank Harry Rosenberg, Mick
Leavitt and Landmark Worldwide staff. To the Wiley team, including Shannon Vargo,
Sally Baker, Peter Knox, Deborah Schindlar, and Jocelyn Kwiatkowski: thank you for 
taking a risk on this project—given its untraditional scope, design, and size—and
for taking such great care throughout all stages of bringing this book into the world.
To Lou Agosta, Jeff Bineham, Richard Doyle, Charles Guignon, Michael J. Hyde,
and Carolyne White—together with the members of Lecole book club—thank you
for reviewing and responding to the early versions of the manuscript; we hope your 
thoughtful attention presages serious study of this rich rhetorical phenomenon 
within such academic fields as rhetoric and writing studies, education, philosophy,
and communication studies.
Last, Bruce and I together stand in ovation to the man who has made, and will
continue to make, the difference for both of us and countless others—the difference
for all those who have had the opportunity, the gift, to be and speak with him—for 
in the very act of speaking being we create possibility for ourselves and our lives. 
Werner Erhard: Thank you for providing a way to say what otherwise remains 
forever unsayable.
instance, the central theme of “the forgetting of Being,” which has eight parts.
Our purpose in this book is not to explain The Forum, or Heidegger’s philosophy—
although there are moments where we do provide analysis—but rather, we primarily
aim to engage the reader in thinking Erhard’s and Heidegger’s ideas for themselves.
For readers who have previously participated in The Forum, we believe the con-
fluence here of Heidegger’s thinking with Erhard’s will enrich the way those readers
hold their Forum experience.  This has been true for the authors, and it is likewise
consistent with the experience of Werner Erhard, for whom exposure to Heidegger’s 
thinking provided profound insights (Erhard, interview with authors). We intend that 
this book, in a dialogue with its readers, will evoke such insights.  
Martin Heidegger once cautioned his students not to focus too closely on the
concepts in his lectures, but rather to follow the “movement of showing” (OTB 2).
The Forum conversation, we assert, is a carefully designed movement in language 
for the showing of being. In this book, we will show that showing. Our goal—Heide-
gger’s, Erhard’s, the authors’—is the unconcealment of a powerful aspect of human
being with which we are, for the most part, unfamiliar.
While it may go without saying, reading this book will not provide an experience
of The Forum. We intend to hint at that experience, and we encourage readers for 
whom our hints are provocative to seek out the experience for themselves. The Forum
occurs essentially as a dialogue; ontological inquiry demands interactive play, and 
needs “the widest sphere in which to swing” (“DL” in OWL 27). In written form, Heideg-
ger warned, “the movement of the questioning that is called for here might too easily 
congeal” (“DL” in OWL 50). 
Nonetheless, as we undertake this project, the authors stand in the open ques-
tion: What is the possibility of communicating being? This is not a questioning that
seeks an answer; rather, the inquiry it generates persistently reflects the question 
itself back upon the questioner, undermining comforting and limiting assumptions.
Thus we see it as a transformational question. We invite the reader to join us in this 
inquiry.
Acknowledgments
It is impossible to list all those who have contributed significantly to the composi-
tion of this book; to do so with full integrity would mean naming all who have risked 
what it means to hear the unsaid in what is said. In particular, our gratitude goes
to several extraordinary individuals without whom our work would have failed to
move beyond the planning stages, including first, Barbara Stevenson and Sheryl


=== END OF PAGE 19 ===

=== PAGE 20 ===



=== END OF PAGE 20 ===

=== PAGE 21 ===

 
Forum Day One: Session One 
7
 PRELUDE
More than 700 people were assembled in the ballroom of the Hyatt Regency Hotel in San 
Francisco on the morning of December 27th, 1989. This was the first day of The Forum, and the 
occasion was unique in several ways. The first was that this Forum was to be led by Werner 
Erhard himself. Although he had created the technology of language that constituted The
Forum, since 1973, to accommodate growing demand for the program across the United States 
and in Europe, the course had increasingly been led by members of a growing body of est
Trainers, and later Forum leaders, a group of men and women trained by Erhard. As of 1989 
there were forty-three Forum leaders, ten women and thirty-three men.
A second unique aspect of this four-day event was that it was an exceptionally large Forum
composed of various groups in addition to the 502 regular participants (the usual number
ranged from 100 to 250). Forty Forum leaders were also present as part of their training; during 
breaks in the procedure, they met with Erhard for debriefing sessions that the senior author 
attended as part of a special program for Forum graduates called Openings, a group of approx-
imately 100 participants who were permitted to observe without actively participating. Also 
in the room were a number of invited observers who occupied a visitors’ gallery and whose
number varied during the course of The Forum. Last, a large contingent of staff and assistants
(volunteers) performed logistical duties throughout the four days. 
Due to the efforts of the assistants, the ballroom set-up remained consistent across all 
sessions of each of the four days. Regular participants and Forum leaders were seated in rows,
theater-style, before a raised platform which stretched across most of the width of the room, 
and included a runway section extending well into the center of the audience area. Arranged
on the platform were three chalkboards, two bar-height director’s chairs, a music stand, and
a large table which held a water pitcher and glasses, tissues, and writing materials. Openings 
participants and other observers were seated on risers at the rear of the room. Also at the rear
of the room was an enclosed translators’ booth: among the participants in Openings were 
twenty-five observers from Japan, seminar leaders and staff members in the Tokyo office of 
Werner Erhard and Associates. They listened to the proceedings in simultaneous translation 
through earphones connected to the translators’ booth. Finally, three television cameras were
placed strategically around the room to record the event, and several television monitors were 
placed so that most participants could watch the proceedings on video if they chose.
THE FORUM BEGINS
At 9:00 am, unannounced, Werner Erhard walked onto the platform. His manner was relaxed 
and casual. He wore dark tan slacks, a white shirt open at the collar, and an olive sweater 
vest. He greeted the participants in a friendly way, welcomed guests, and asked for questions 
while late arrivals were completing their paperwork. He asked if there was anything about the
television cameras that needed clearing up, and he explained the presence of the Openings
participants and the observers seated in the Gallery. Someone asked about the people wearing
earphones, and he explained about the translators and participants from Japan. “That’s a good 
question,” he said. “Questions like that . . . what about, what if?”
Participants who raised their hands were asked to stand and wait until they were given a 
microphone; an assistant was stationed on each aisle to deliver one. After Erhard responded 
SPEAKING 
BEING
DAY ONE
FORUM DAY ONE: 
SESSION ONE


=== END OF PAGE 21 ===

=== PAGE 22 ===

8
SPEAKING BEING
Talking about Being
One of the similarities between the work of Werner Erhard and
Martin Heidegger is that both are designing a language for a 
specific purpose: the evocation of Being. Since the debut of The 
Forum in 1985, Erhard has regularly incorporated Heideggerian 
terminology into his vocabulary, and has quoted Heidegger 
extensively in his courses. It is the primary thesis of this book that 
Erhard’s work is aligned in significant ways with the philosophy of 
Martin Heidegger. Even the est Training, the beginnings of which
t
predate Erhard’s encounter with Heidegger (circa 1980), already
was aligned in significant ways with Heidegger’s thinking. This
alignment allowed Erhard to creatively incorporate Heideggerian
language in the delivery of what would become The Forum.
Heidegger’s language, on first encounter, is notoriously 
difficult; he regularly invented new German terms for his ideas,
and translators have struggled to capture his meanings. Erhard
likewise uses words in unconventional ways, and calls his work
a “technology of language” in recognition of that fact. It is the
experience of the authors that a comparative inquiry into the two 
bodies of work illuminates the thinking of both men, and helps
to clarify the linguistic complexity of Heidegger’s writing. In this 
book, we intend gradually to unconceal (a Heideggerian term 
l
Erhard has used) that clarity (IM 116). 
This is not to say that either body of thought ever reaches the
kind of logical understandability that we generally expect in what
we read and hear. “If you walk out of here understanding,” Erhard
tells The Forum participants at one point, “that’s the booby prize.” 
Both Heidegger and Erhard are attempting to communicate
something that, on that familiar level, cannot be communicated 
or grasped. This is new territory for communication, and requires 
both a new language (or, as Erhard says, new “languaging”) and a
new way of listening.
We request, therefore, that the reader join us in embracing
the atmosphere of questionability that must surround this entire
to several questions about the various colors of name tags worn by people in the room, one 
participant raised her hand. Erhard called upon her to stand, and she asked about Erhard’s use 
of language.
ERHARD
You need a language that gives you access to the kind of detail that you need to be a brain sur-
geon... The language you and I are going to use in here is also a specifi c language. It’s designed 
to let you get at something you can’t get at without that language. Surgeons generally confi ne 
that kind of speaking to the operating room, and so do I. I don’t use that language when I’m out
to dinner. For the most part it’s unseemly to use special language when you’re with people who
don’t share in that language.
Erhard asked for more questions. After he called on someone, he explained the reasons for
standing up and for calling on multiple people (“to allow time to get microphones to them”). She 
asked about logistics. Erhard said it would happen later. She sat down.
BLAKE (after receiving a microphone from an assistant)
I don’t know whether The Forum started yet, but I wanted to get through my apprehension of 
speaking before the group.
ERHARD
I suggest that those of you who have a fear of speaking take the same opportunity as Blake did. 
In The Forum no one is required to stand up and speak, though it is in your interest to do so,
especially if you are reluctant to stand and speak.
Erhard also discussed the schedule of the course, pointing out that the daily ending time would be 
sometime between 11:00 pm and 1:00 am, adding that
ERHARD
Nobody guarantees you that schedule. You want to be clear about that. We’re going to do this 
as long as it takes to get it done.
In addition, he said, The Forum would not be complete until the completion of the evening session, 
which would be held on the following Thursday evening—simultaneously in several cities, since 
many participants in this Forum had traveled to San Francisco for this event. Participants were 
encouraged to bring guests to their respective evening sessions.
As the conversation proceeded into the second hour, it gradually became clear, without transition,
that the serious business of the course had begun. A participant named Ruth rose to say that she
was pessimistic about getting the results of The Forum. Erhard began his response by acknowledg-
ing the validity of her doubt.


=== END OF PAGE 22 ===

=== PAGE 23 ===

 
Forum Day One: Session One 
9
ERHARD
Very, very little in life turns out the way it was promised. So I remember my mother told me if I 
was a good boy everything would be great in life. I tried it for one day and it didn’t work. People 
are told that when they graduate life will be wonderful, life will be easy, and it didn’t turn out 
that way. When you get married it’ll be great but it doesn’t turn out that way. People say when 
you get divorced it’ll be all right but it doesn’t turn out that way. Most things don’t live up to
their promises.
RUTH
And what about the promises of The Forum?
ERHARD
Based on surveys, most people who’ve done this work say it turned out better than they expect-
ed. For you that’ll be easy, because you have a pessimistic view about how things’ll turn out. 
We’ve got your six hundred dollars. You’re not going to get it back. Given that conversation’s 
over, it’ll turn out however it turns out. You know, I’ve never been wrong about that.
(To Ruth)
I could say a lot of things to reassure you, and that would be a mistake. Your pessimism is you.
(raising his voice, he turned to the group)
Listen up! If you haven’t noticed, The Forum has begun. See, you and I think that our mood, 
our internal state, the way we are seeing things; we think that is a product of the circumstanc-
t
es. So I look at something and I like it, or I look at something and I don’t like it. I think if I 
like it, it’s the fault of the thing I’m looking at, and if I don’t like it, I think it’s the fault of the 
thing I’m looking at. That’s the kind of thing that generates in me: “like”; and that’s the kind 
of thing that generates in me: “don’t like.” You and I think that our way of being is a product of 
what’s over there. As you will see as we do The Forum together a lot of what is going on with
you and me is something we already always are. It’s something I am before anything happens. 
I’m kind of a pessimist waiting for life to happen, or I’m an optimist waiting for life to happen. 
About certain kinds of things I’m a pessimist before I even look at them, and then when I look 
at them, it’s hard for me to recognize that the pessimism isn’t generated out of the thing I’m 
looking at, but it’s something I brought with me. Kind of like I was already always pessimistic
and then this thing came along. So it’s good that you’re pessimistic, and if you’re not pessimis-
tic, that’s good too.
(to Ruth)
If you find yourself being that way, don’t try to change it. What’s good is whatever you are, 
because that’s what you want to bring into The Forum. If you deal with that pessimism
which you are in a certain way, you’ll have a choice about being pessimistic when it is ap-
propriate. Pessimism is not a bad idea, and if you didn’t have pessimism I would give it to 
you, because one of the things you’re going to find in here is that we ask you not to believe 
anything that’s said in here. We’ll talk more about that later. At any rate, the point that 
project. There is a sense in which we don’t know what we are
talking about, and the emphasis in that sentence should be placed 
on the word “know,” as implying a secure conceptual grasp. 
Talking about Being is challenging and sometimes feels, to use
the vernacular, weird. Being is both pervasive and evanescent. It 
is elusive, vanishing even as it appears. 
In his writing about Being (and all of his writing is about 
Being), Heidegger celebrates the ambiguity surrounding the topic.
This is “something which every thinker has to see afresh each 
time, else he is not a thinker: that everything that lies before us is
ambiguous” (WCT 201). However, this does not mean fuzziness at
T
the expense of rigor: 
NOTE:  Erhard believes that Heidegger’s use of the word 
“thought” leaves people misled about what Heidegger 
means in the following way: Perhaps the word “thought” is 
valid for what is written down for people to consider, but it
did not come from “thinking”—by which most people will
understand “figuring it out”—it came from something like 
“looking,” or “just being with,” and is pointed to by the word 
“wonder” (Erhard, interview with the authors).
This multiplicity of possible interpretations
does not discredit the strictness of the thought
content. For all true thought remains open 
to more than one interpretation—and this by 
reason of its nature. Nor is this multiplicity of 
possible interpretations merely the residue
of a still unachieved formal-logical univocity 
which we properly ought to strive for but did 
not attain. Rather, multiplicity of meanings is 
the element in which all thought must move in 
order to be strict thought. (WCT 71)
T
“


=== END OF PAGE 23 ===

=== PAGE 24 ===

10
SPEAKING BEING
Nevertheless, despite its challenges, we assert that Being is 
also the most important thing that one could talk about, since 
talk that evokes Being has the ability to transform talk about 
everything else.
A fundamental difference in this arena is the distinction
between ontological and 
l
ontic inquiry. Ontological inquiry is 
concerned primarily with Being. Therefore all of Heidegger’s
writing, and all of the dialogue of The Forum, is ontological in 
nature. Ontic inquiry is concerned with beings, and with facts 
about them. Therefore all of our everyday conversations—
everything from political discourse to casual social chat—may be
seen as ontic. 
This is not to dismiss ontic inquiry as unimportant, or to 
equate a discussion of religion or physics with coffeeshop banter. 
We are not claiming that ontological inquiry is better, but that 
it is essentially different. And in the experience of the authors, 
it is profoundly interesting because of its transformational 
possibilities. In this book, we will illuminate the nature of 
ontological inquiry.
A prefatory note: people who write about Heidegger’s 
work differ as to whether the term Being should be capitalized.
This is, of course, a choice for translators and not one that 
confronted Heidegger, since in German all nouns are capitalized. 
It is a problematic choice because capitalization tends to reify 
or even deify, suggesting to some scholars that Being is “an 
eternal metaphysical foundation or eternal principle,” while 
for Heidegger it was “the event in which an entity reveals or 
t
shows itself” (Michael E. Zimmerman, Heidegger’s Confrontation 
with Modernity: Technology, Politics, Art xxii). Others feel that
t
capitalization is important so that what it means to exist (Being)
is not confused with the entities that exist (beings) (Richard Polt
Heidegger: An Introduction 3). 
In print, Erhard himself did not capitalize the term: a 1985 
Forum brochure states that the purpose of The Forum is to 
provide participants with “direct access to the domain of being 
itself.” In his more recent work, such as documents outlining 
I want to make now is that whatever it is that you’re feeling, or whatever it is that you’re
thinking, or whatever your mental state is, or whatever your perception is, the way you are
viewing things—that’s exactly the way it ought to be. I’m going to probably have to say that 
to you ten times, because you won’t remember that.
(to the group)
Another way you already always are is stupid about yourself. If that sounded a little bit like an
insult, you got it right. You may not be able to see that about yourself, but you’ll be able to see it
about others. As I said: not you, but other people.
(laughter)
There are ways of being with yourself that are disempowering and disenabling. You lose power 
and you lose ability. Whatever way you fi nd yourself now, and whatever ways you fi nd yourself 
variously throughout The Forum or in the evenings, or on the breaks: that’s the way you’re sup-
posed to be—whatever way that is. One way to disempower or disenable yourself is to question
whether you are being the right way... You’ll get a lot more out of The Forum a lot faster if you 
let yourself be the way you are.
(pausing)
There’s a lot of this you’re not going to get. Some of it won’t make any sense. You’re not going 
to get the whole Forum. The questions we’re asking in here are too powerful to get it all. The 
Forum leaders are still getting it. So am I. But there are parts when you need to get it. In those
parts, put up your hand if you don’t. There will be a lot of repetition in here, too. For the fourth
time: you should be the way you are! However you feel, that’s the way it ought to be. The way 
I know that is, that’s the way it is... The only right way to do The Forum is to be the way you’re 
being. If you say you shouldn’t be pessimistic, you’re getting in your way.
A participant complained that she was distracted by and resentful about the physical set-up for this 
Forum—the cameras, the observers, etc.
ERHARD
What you want to get out of that is that life is upsetting because it isn’t the way you expected it 
to be. The Forum will be that way also. What you want to get out of that is that you’re already 
upset. You’re already always upset at any change, at anything that violates your expectations. 
You think you’re not upset until something violates your expectations. I said this strange thing:
you are already always upset. You live upset. I know you don’t believe that and I’m not asking 
you to. You’re an upset waiting to happen. You’ll see that more clearly as we proceed.
LYNETTE
I’m often upset.
ERHARD
You’re always upset, and sometimes you notice it.
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 24 ===

=== PAGE 25 ===

 
Forum Day One: Session One 
11
LYNETTE
Do you have any more advice about how to get the most out of this?
ERHARD
I do and we’ll go over that this morning.
TRENT
I hear there are Forum leaders here.
ERHARD
Forum leaders are here as part of their job.
TRENT
Four consecutive days instead of two weekends?
ERHARD
We’ve done this using odd schedules in diff erent settings, for instance, in  prisons.
BLAKE (who expressed reservations about speaking)
Continuing what you were saying as far as upset is concerned, and always being with you. My 
barrier is the fear of revealing who I am. I should accept that.
ERHARD
Whatever you think is in the way, especially those things you think are part of the circum-
stances—for instance, you don’t get along with your boss and it’s quite clear to you that’s 
because you work for a jerk—bring that in here. Blake is clear that it’s something he carries
around with him; it doesn’t come out of the circumstances. That’s easy. It’s the stuff  you think
is a product of the circumstances. So if there are circumstances in here, for instance, because
there are people observing—that sounds like it is a product of the circumstances.
CHRISSY
You talked about being in The Forum whatever way you are being. What about outside
The Forum?
ERHARD
Let yourself be like you are in those parts of The Forum that are outside The Forum, for
homework assignments during the breaks, etc. If that’s your mood at the moment, don’t try to
change it. You want it there because if it isn’t there it’s not going to get dealt with—particularly 
those things you think are part of the circumstances: bring that in here. Most of what you do
outside The Forum in the next four days is going to be inside The Forum. If you do something 
to avoid that, then you’ve successfully avoided that once more. See, there’s a lot of this you’re
his development of an ontological/phenomenological model of 
leadership (https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/ cf_dev/ AbsByAuth.
cfm?per_id=433651), he continues to employ the lowercase. 
In this book, we will employ capitalization in those instances 
where it clarifies the word’s meaning in a specific sentence. 
We raise the point here to emphasize the unique nature of the
issues that arise in any discussion, oral or written, of this subject. 
Being/being, as an ontological phenomenon, defies grammatical
categorization. ■
NOTE:  As of 2019, Landmark Worldwide’s Forum leader 
faculty included more than 60 people, representing a diver-
sity in gender and race, and hailing from countries including
the United States of America, India, Japan, Australia, 
New Zealand, the United Kingdom, Canada, Israel, the
Netherlands and Switzerland. 


=== END OF PAGE 25 ===

=== PAGE 26 ===

12
SPEAKING BEING
not going to like. You’re sitting there now with a whole bunch of assessments and conclusions.
We’ve done this a lot. I can even tell you what your assessments and conclusions are.
A participant asked whether, based on all of this, he should keep his specifi c issues and concerns
foremost in his mind.
ERHARD
You don’t need to have something you’re kind of holding in place. We will hook what’s there
in you that’s appropriate to be hooked and pull it up to the surface. So you can kind of relax 
about that. A lot of stuff  you won’t even think about will get handled in here.
Another participant asked about the history of the organization.
ERHARD
We’ve been doing this work since 1971 and it was at the end of 1984 that we fi nished a four-
year process of developing The Forum, and we’ve been off ering The Forum since 1985 all over 
this country, and in lots of other countries around the world.
At this point, a man named Jake rose to complain about the purpose of the evening session, to
which participants had been encouraged to invite guests.
JAKE
Isn’t that more for Werner Erhard and Associates to hustle more members?
ERHARD
You know that you are a hustle waiting to happen, right?
JAKE
I said I feel like I’m being hustled.
ERHARD
I said you are a guy who is being hustled waiting to happen.
JAKE
I don’t mind being hustled.
ERHARD
I said you are a guy who is being hustled waiting to happen.
JAKE
I don’t see it that way.
Erhard came down from the stage and sat on the edge of the platform near him.
Dasein
At the outset, it is important to introduce a term that is central 
in Martin Heidegger’s work, and will therefore begin to come up 
here almost immediately.
Dasein is Heidegger’s word for the Being of human beings,
and is one of the few terms in English editions of his writing 
that consistently remain untranslated from the German. In 
fact, the 2014 Dictionary of Untranslatables, published by
Princeton University Press, calls the word “a paradigm of the 
untranslatable,” and devotes six double-columned pages to a
struggle to explain it (Adam Gopnik, “Word Magic,” New Yorker,. 
May 26, 2014, 37).
A problem with translating this term, of course, is that term
is central in Heidegger’s most important work, Being and Time, 
in which he presents his ontological model of human beings. 
The specific elements of this model will be discussed in further 
detail as we proceed. For now, it is sufficient to note that Dasein 
will be spoken of as if the term indicates an individual; but since
it indicates the Being of that individual, it refers at the same time 
more broadly to the collective Being of human beings.  
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 26 ===

=== PAGE 27 ===

 
Forum Day One: Session One 
13
ERHARD
You’re oriented around being hustled. You would see hustle where other people wouldn’t be
smart enough to see it.
JAKE
I could go along with that.
ERHARD
You are a guy who is being hustled waiting to happen. Remember I said people are upset wait-
ing to happen? You’re hustle waiting to happen.
JAKE
I’m still not getting it.
ERHARD
Okay good, then we’ll keep doing it until you do get it.
JAKE
In front of all these people? 
ERHARD
Sure. You see hustle where others don’t. You are already always being hustled. You are waiting 
for it to happen. You wake up that way in the morning, you just don’t have the circumstances to 
express it yet.
JAKE
I think I see that... I am. I’m on the watch-out. I watch my bucks.
ERHARD
I’ve already got your bucks, don’t I? Before this is over I’m going to get some more of your
bucks.
JAKE
That’s a challenge.
ERHARD
With you, I’d almost bet on it.
He remained seated on the edge of the platform as this interaction modulated from confrontational 
to friendly.


=== END OF PAGE 27 ===

=== PAGE 28 ===

14
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD (continuing)
That by the way was meant as a compliment. I’m going to off er you an opportunity to do this 
for the rest of your life, because I’m clear that you’re going to get a lot of value out of this and
I’m going to off er you the opportunity to get more value. You will always have the power to
decline. I want you to know that’s there in the relationship between me and you. I have no
reluctance to hustling you, because you always have the power to decline. Is that clear?
JAKE
Yeah, I got it.
The fi rst morning of The Forum continued as a dialogue with the group as Erhard responded to
participants’ questions. One woman expressed a concern that the content would go “over her head.”
ERHARD
Most of what I say is not designed for your head. Understanding is not the problem in life. If 
you took a four-day course in how to be a tennis player and you left the course as a great tennis 
player without understanding a word of it, the diff erence would be your being a great tennis
player. We don’t promise you any understanding. You’re welcome to understand. I like this 
stuff , so I enjoy understanding it. That’s a quirk in me. We do this so that there’s a freedom
to be. If you walk out understanding, that’s the booby prize. You walk out of here with the 
freedom to be that you didn’t have when you walked in here, then you got something for your
money. Speaking in here is designed to create the freedom to be... You don’t understand what 
that means. What interests me is the freedom to be. You’ll be interested in that too before this 
is over. I’ve done The Forum before so I know it works out.
A woman stated that she was already always nervous.
ERHARD (to the group)
How many people in here are already always nervous? 
(most raising their hands)
You understand that the things that are going on with you are going on with everybody? You’re 
like a rainstorm. You’ve got to get that there’s nothing personal about a rainstorm—that is,
that it waters the little fl owers. You think that the rainstorm is worried about life on earth. You 
think that it rains so that... it rains in-order-to. It’s true that life is sustained by the rain, but it’s
not true that it rains in-order-to.
SAL (standing up, receiving a microphone)
You’re just arguing semantics.
ERHARD
No, it’s not semantics. Or the other answer to that is, yes it’s semantics, but so is everything else 
in the universe.
Two Theses
The first thesis of this book, which will be addressed directly in 
the text, is that the work of Werner Erhard is aligned in important 
ways with the thinking of Martin Heidegger. Our purpose is to 
show this alignment through a comparative analysis of their work, 
an analysis that not only illuminates the thinking of both men, but 
sheds light as well on the nature of their shared central concern.
The second thesis, equal in importance to the first, cannot 
be addressed directly in the text. We have indicated it with the 
term Being, since unless we indicate it we cannot talk about it—as 
Heidegger puts it, “one cannot get by in public without rubrics” 
(OWL 29). But the term serves merely as a place-holder, since 
what it indicates cannot be thought, or even thought about, in our 


=== END OF PAGE 28 ===

=== PAGE 29 ===

 
Forum Day One: Session One 
15
SAL 
I believe that when it rains it rains in order to sustain life.
ERHARD
Okay, let’s stay there. Anybody else in that ballpark with Sal? Stand up if you are. Stand up if it 
rains in-order-to.
(a number of people rose)
If you’re not standing and you are an in-order-to, you’re interfering with your participation in 
The Forum. These people who are standing are not silly. They’ve got their foot nailed to the 
fl oor someplace. This will happen to all of you a lot of times during The Forum.
(to Sal, indicating the director’s chair on the platform)
Are the legs there to hold up the chair? We know that the legs do hold up the chair. For the legs, 
is there any in-order-to? Are the legs in-ordering-to?
(pausing) 
It’s too hard that way... let me try something diff erent. Is the wall standing in order to hold the
ceiling up?
SAL 
Yes, in my opinion. 
ERHARD
Does the lightning lightning in order to start forest fi res?
SAL 
No.
ERHARD
Where is this organ of intentionality in the rainstorm?
SAL 
The spirituality of the universe.
ERHARD  (to the group)
He just told me where his foot’s nailed to the fl oor. He’s got something he believes so he can’t 
think about it.
(to Sal)
You think there’s an intentionality in the rainstorm. You said it’s your belief that matter was
invaded by spirit in some way. Does it rain in order to produce fl oods?
usual way of conceptualizing. Think “freedom” and a conceptual
barrage is evoked; think “Being” and the mind’s resources are few. 
Our second thesis, since it eludes capture in concepts, 
can only be hinted at. It exists always as a background, 
in a domain of language that remains always unspoken. 
Unspoken, it is the unexamined context that shapes the way we
understand everything else; unspoken, it is made present as 
the transformational background in the dialogue of The Forum;
unspoken, it is hinted at persistently in Heidegger’s writing and in 
his lectures. Our second thesis, then, is this unspoken domain of 
language, formally referred to as the ontological realm. 
In this book, to show what Werner Erhard and Martin 
Heidegger are doing in their work, the authors are called upon 
to say—to hint at—the unspoken shared dynamic at the center 
of that work. Inevitably, an element of mystery attends this
topic; but nothing here is devious or arcane. While ontological
communication makes rigorous demands on our everyday
understanding, Erhard’s work is a practical pedagogical 
methodology, demonstrating that education beyond the merely 
epistemological is a real-world possibility.
The authors intend that our second thesis will be 
communicated in the background as we proceed through this
book, leaving the reader with a hint of its nature as it emerges in
The Forum. 
One aspect of this background communication is that 
unfamiliar terms or concepts may not be fully defined at the 
point of their first appearance. Rather, they will be distinguished 
gradually as they appear and reappear in the text. A definition
specifies conceptual limits; a distinction opens a space for 
thinking and acting, and the space is expanded each time the
distinction is encountered. The goal of the inquiry, then, is 
never an answer, but the opening of a question from which 
to experience the world. We invite the reader to embrace the 
freedom that this background of questionability gives: at play in 
the question, you don’t need the right answer.  ■


=== END OF PAGE 29 ===

=== PAGE 30 ===

16
SPEAKING BEING
SAL 
No.
ERHARD
So the intentionality organ is not operating when it produces fl oods?
SAL
No, that just happens.
ERHARD
But it doesn’t just happen that when it rains life is sustained? Remember, Sal, there’s no ques-
tion between you and me that water does sustain life. The  question is: does it rain in-order-to? 
Or does it just happen, and by the way, it sustains life?
At this point Sal seemed to see Erhard’s point, and sat down.
ERHARD (to Sal)
Okay. Now, just something personal between you and me. I’ve done this a lot. There’s some-
thing I appreciated about you in this conversation. You were open in the conversation.
(to the group)
Nobody’s ever going to win with me in here. Because this is my game, and only an asshole 
would try to win in another guy’s game. You and I had a discussion where we got something
t
together. Rain is impersonal. We weren’t talking about a higher order of things. I don’t want 
anybody to believe anything I say. And I’m not interested in sustaining anything you believe.
BLAKE (recalling what had happened up to this moment in the conversation)
I know that there was some sequence and I missed it. I mentioned that I was nervous, that I 
didn’t like it, and then we were talking about the rain.
ERHARD (to the group)
He just demonstrated not knowing, being clear he didn’t know. That’s diff erent from being con-
fused. This is one of those things to get. There’s a diff erence between knowing that you don’t
understand, knowing that you didn’t follow something; knowing something didn’t make sense 
and being confused are very diff erent. You didn’t invent being nervous. Even though the rain is 
impersonal, you do personally get wet. The same thing goes for being nervous. Being nervous 
is part of being human. Being human doesn’t belong to you; you belong to it. You didn’t invent 
being human. You were late for the party. Being human is an already always way of being that
you walked into. It’s like a rainstorm, and it’s true you personally got wet. You are a human
Ontologic al Dialogue
A striking aspect of Erhard’s method, one which appears again 
and again throughout The Forum, is his persistence in pressing 
any interaction or any topic of discussion through to completion. 
Complete, for Erhard, does not mean simply finished, but rather 
whole, and lacking none of its essential parts. Repeatedly, after 
he has been engaged on a particular point with an individual, he 
requests that others in the room who are not clear on that point 
stand, and works with each participant individually until all of 
them have “gotten” it for themselves. Erhard often uses the term 
“flatten” in the same sense, as in “Let’s get that one flat before 
we move on.” To get something flat, in an ontological dialogue, 
means that the item in question has been moved beyond a purely
conceptual level of understanding, and has been distinguished 
as an ontological possibility, at least in a preliminary sense. The
distinction will continue to be teased out as The Forum proceeds, 
ultimately becoming a clearing for Being; but the first step in that 
process is to flatten the concept, so that its ontological possibility 
can be heard. 
Of course, “getting it” and “being complete” might be 
read as “having surrendered to Erhard’s point of view.” Erhard 
himself seemed to support this interpretation, telling one Forum 
participant Blake, “Nobody’s ever going to win with me in here. 
Because this is my game, and only an asshole would try to win in 
another guy’s game.” During a debriefing session with The Forum 
leaders regarding their role in the dialogue, Erhard again referred 
to the process in agonistic terms: “You’ve got to have some 
appreciation for the advantage you’ve got there,” he said. “And 
yeah, you’re going to use the advantage, that’s part of the game.”


=== END OF PAGE 30 ===

=== PAGE 31 ===

 
Forum Day One: Session One 
17
being, but you didn’t make up human being. You didn’t invent being nervous. You didn’t invent
having a barrier to expressing yourself. That doesn’t belong to you. That’s not yours. That’s in
the already always being of human being. It doesn’t belong to you; you belong to it.
(forcefully)
It owns you! You don’t own it. Being nervous owns your life. You don’t own being nervous. The 
metaphor is that there’s nothing personal about a rainstorm. It just rains, and I, you, personally 
get wet. But the rainstorm didn’t rain in order to get me wet. Being nervous is already always
there in the being of being human. And you and I walk out into that rainstorm and get wet... 
In The Forum, you get back the power to say something about your own way of being. Now 
you can only report on it. But you can’t say “I’m not nervous” and have it make any diff erence. 
After The Forum you will be able to.
BLAKE
I’m not as nervous as when I first stood up. I am here to make a change, find a new occupa-
tion, to get up in front of people. What it requires is getting up.
ERHARD
Not necessarily.
BLAKE
Well, I don’t know.
ERHARD
That’s right. And I do know.
BLAKE
That’s why I’m asking you.
ERHARD
I want to get it settled because you’re going to keep saying those stupid kinds of things: what
you have to do and what you don’t have to do for this to work. And the answer is you don’t
know. So I’m gonna tell you: what you have to do is what you do. So you’ll always know what
you have to do because you’re doing what you’re doing. To do something you’re not doing:
that’s bad. If you do what you do it’ll all work out. One of the things that you are doing is think-
ing you have to stand up. That’s fi ne for you to think that. You wanna know why I think it’s
fi ne for him to think that? Because that’s what he’s thinking.
BLAKE
You’re right. At some point you broke through whatever was in the way and now you’re up
there doing what you are doing.
The game in The Forum is the evocation of the presence 
of Being, and The Forum leader’s opponent is the way of being
that we in the technological age have been born into (the way 
we wound up being). Clearly, there is a certain direction which 
must be maintained in The Forum dialogue if its purpose is
to be achieved. The maintenance of this direction in the face 
of participants’ resistance might appear, to the everyday
understanding, as motivated by a need on The Forum leader’s
part to win the game, so that The Forum’s perspective is shown 
to be the true one. However, accepted in The Forum is that The
Forum leader’s responsibility is maintaining the ontological 
character of the conversation. “My job,” said Erhard, “is to 
manage the dialogue.” This management is not a matter of 
winning, but of keeping the way in view. In a recent conversation 
with the authors, Erhard put it this way: “I used this way of 
speaking to deal with people who are resisting in order to resist, 
rather than functioning in a dialogue.”
Any discussion of dialogue as pedagogy must always consider 
the question of mutuality, and this is especially delicate when the
dialogue’s purpose is the presencing of Being. The Forum leaders’ 
rank in The Forum dialogue is given by their ability to listen to 
the conversation from a certain perspective. As Erhard told The 
Forum leaders, “You’ve got to know that an authentic dialogue is 
going to generate clarity. You’ve also got to watch you don’t get
hooked. What hooks [you] is when someone says something that
you think puts you at a disadvantage.” Being hooked, for a Forum
leader, means being drawn into argument or commiseration with
participants’ stories about their lives, rather than maintaining
the transformed perspective given by The Forum’s ontological
distinctions. It is The Forum leader’s job not to get hooked.
This balance between mutuality and directedness in an 
ontological dialogue is an important matter. Obviously, there is
a thrust to such a dialogue—a movement of the conversation in 
the direction of its ontological intention. In his dialogue with the
Japanese scholar in On the Way to Language, Heidegger points 
to the nature of true dialogue when he states that “we may 


=== END OF PAGE 31 ===

=== PAGE 32 ===

18
SPEAKING BEING
BLAKE (pausing)
It’s really hard for me not to be funny.
ERHARD
Yeah. You’re already always funny.
BLAKE
And I don’t want to be silly or you’re going to get mad at me. It’s just a temptation to always be
funny.
ERHARD
It’s the way you avoid dealing with what you don’t want to deal with, which is being anything 
but funny. That’s what you don’t want to deal with. You learned how to deal with being funny.
You got that down very well and the rest of it you’re a little nervous about. But you’re not ner-
vous about being funny, are you?
BLAKE
No.
ERHARD
And you’re not nervous about whatever your racket is either. You’re just nervous about the rest
of it. I know you don’t understand half of what we’re talking about, but that’s all right. Just the
fi rst couple hours.
BLAKE
I don’t want to be nervous anymore.
ERHARD
Somebody write that down for me.
BLAKE
I’m not a dictator and so I have to live with the things I’m not comfortable with, and when I’m
uncomfortable, other people are uncomfortable. I don’t like that.
ERHARD
Thanks... The next subject. Everybody ready for the next subject?
A participant named Charles, who was still concerned with the conversation about the rain, rose.
CHARLES
I’m with “it rains so that life is sustained.”
confidently entrust ourselves to the hidden drift of our 
dialogue. . . as long as we remain inquirers” (“DL” in OWL 30,
emphasis added). In true dialogue—which always has an 
unspoken ontological intent—the dialogue itself can be trusted to 
move us along if we, as participants, continue to be a certain way. 
Notice the reflexive nature of the process: simultaneous surrender 
and evocation. In The Forum, the maintenance of this delicate 
balance is The Forum leader’s task.
A central element of The Forum’s effectiveness is the
inclusiveness of its conversation: interactions between The Forum 
leader and those participants who actively engage in the dialogue
are conducted in front of the entire group, so that even those 
participants who are listening and observing are able to derive 
the benefits of those interactions. 
For both Heidegger and Erhard, a shared tendency of human
being underlies all of our diverse individual and cultural concerns. 
The assumption of The Forum’s methodology is that a skillfully 
managed dialogue between two people can affect the ontological
insight of others who are listening to that dialogue, and who share
the tendency of being that generates it. 
A participant whose concern is her relationship with her 
employer can recognize, in another participant’s discussion of his 
problems with his mother, the same existential structure that is at 
the source of her own problem. Thus The Forum leader regularly 
exhorts participants to “listen from your own concerns.” ■


=== END OF PAGE 32 ===

=== PAGE 33 ===

 
Forum Day One: Session One 
19
ERHARD
What we were discussing is this in-order-to. I say the rain has no intention to do anything.
There’s nothing there that could intend. It just rains when it rains. There’s no intention in the
rain. Look, Charles, I’m doing something in the conversation which is designed to allow you to
take a look at your own beliefs. I’m asking questions which reduce your thesis to an absurdity.
If I ask if it rains in order to destroy life, you have to say yes if you believe that it rains in order
to sustain life, and so it makes you reexamine your theory. If you can consider the possibility 
that there is no intention in the rainstorm, then you are no longer stuck with what you used to 
believe.
CHARLES
I’ll keep looking at it.
ERHARD
We have to go quickly now or there won’t be any fi fth night. There’ll be a twelfth night. 
Someone raised a question about why participants were not allowed to take notes in The Forum, a policy 
that had been communicated when they registered for the course.
ERHARD
Because we don’t want you to retain information. So you don’t get stuck trying to remember 
something. You think Bjorn Borg remembers how to hold the tennis racket? This is no diff erent
than the conversation about the rainstorm.
(loudly)
You have this superstition that you do things because you remember how to do them! You don’t 
drive your car, play tennis, or live life powerfully and eff ectively out of anything you remember. 
If Joe Montana had to remember how to throw the football when he’s back in the pocket, he’d
get killed every Sunday.
A woman named Doris rose with a question about the rainstorm:
DORIS
What about the role of ultimate being in natural events?
ERHARD
I don’t like to discuss ultimate being with people who don’t know their ass from a hole in the 
ground.
DORIS
I fi nd that response pretty off ensive.


=== END OF PAGE 33 ===

=== PAGE 34 ===

20
SPEAKING BEING
DORIS (stammering slightly) 
Are you inferring that I don’t . . .?
ERHARD
No.
(pausing) 
We don’t know yet. 
DORIS
I assure you I do. 
ERHARD
Really? We’ll see. You either do or you don’t, so there’s nothing to be nervous about. Then we 
could discuss ultimate being. 
(pausing)
I want you to get that I am not a guy in a diner.
He moved toward the back row where Doris was standing:
ERHARD (continuing) 
When I was growing up on the east coast, my family took trips to visit people. And we would 
drive home, oftentimes very late at night, oftentimes when it was raining or snowing or nasty. 
And diners, as far as I knew, were places where you stopped to get a cup of coff ee so you could
stay awake while you were driving. And at my age I couldn’t let anybody do anything without
my being there, so I always had to go in with them. And I learned about guys in diners. Guys in
diners, late at night like I’m describing to you, are usually fairly lonely, because they don’t have 
anybody to talk to. And they just love for somebody to stop in because then they’ve got some-
body to talk to. And you know, you go in, and you’re the only person there, and you sit up at the
counter, and you have your cup of coff ee and whatever else. And you fi nd out that this guy in 
the  diner—the guy behind the counter—knows everything about everything. There is nothing 
about which he does not know. He knows what the president ought to do about the defi cit, he 
knows what the country ought to do about international relationships, he knows what you 
ought to do about your marriage, he knows what kind of work you ought to do and how what-
ever kind of work you are doing how you could do it better, he knows something about every-
thing. Most people are like a guy in a diner. Goddamned near everybody knows everything 
about everything. So in here—at least in The Forum—I question everything. Everything—in-
cluding whether or not you know your ass from a hole in the ground. And whether anyone is
qualifi ed to discuss ultimate being. I didn’t say you weren’t. That’s the way I do The Forum.
(to Doris)
Okay? 
Being-in-the-world: Being-in
An important term that Werner Erhard often employs in his work, 
and one which is central in the thinking of Martin Heidegger is 
Being-in-the-world. To indicate clearly that a human being in his 
model of things is not a self-contained Cartesian subject, separate 
from an objective world “out there,” Heidegger never presents 
Dasein’s Being as disconnected, either from others or from the 
world. Dasein’s Being is Being-in-the-world. This indicates “a
unitary phenomenon” which “must be seen as a whole” (
y
BT 78).
T
However, while “Being-in-the-world cannot be broken up into 
contents which may be pieced together,” the constituent parts 
may be “brought out for emphasis.” One of these parts is Being-in.


=== END OF PAGE 34 ===

=== PAGE 35 ===

 
Forum Day One: Session One 
21
DORIS 
Okay.
She sat. A man rose to object to Erhard’s earlier assertion that our ways of being, such as nervous-
ness, own us. 
FOSTER
I understand that being nervous is a human quality. Why don’t I own being nervous? Isn’t that 
a quality of me? 
ERHARD 
Where is this quality? 
FOSTER (pointing to his heart)
Here, and it’s pounding! 
ERHARD 
My dog’s heart pounds. You and I explain things about people by assigning qualities to them. 
But this may not be eff ective if what you want to do is have access to the things you’re explain-
ing. The language we use every day is designed to explain things. The language we use in here 
is designed to gain access to things. So it’s a diff erent language. Explanations give no access to
power. If you want power and access, we’re going to invent such a language in here. I’m not 
limited to merely reporting the way I am. I’m an anti-quality-ist. You ain’t got any qualities 
inside you. Qualities are an explanatory principle. It won’t hold up on closer examination. 
Erhard was now in the aisle, moving among the participants. One rose to defend the importance of 
having what he called self-beliefs.
RAY
How does one hold beliefs about oneself and about reality in a way to be powerful and creative?
ERHARD
One of the ways is to not have any beliefs. Does anyone need to believe that the fl oor is there? 
You don’t need to have any belief about the fl oor and it works just fi ne. And if you didn’t have 
any beliefs about gravity it would work just fi ne. You only need to believe in things that you 
doubt. The only problem with belief is that you can’t think about anything you believe.
k
RAY
I have an interpretation about myself, and how do I hold that interpretation?
ERHARD
As an interpretation.
Being-in articulates an essentially different relationship
from the one we usually have in mind when we say something is
“in” something. If we say “the water is in the glass,” for example, 
the two phenomena being related have a prior and individual 
existence in space: the water was there, and the glass was there. 
We have simply put one in the other. Further, as Heidegger points
out, we can easily extend such relationships outward: the glass is
on the table, the table is in the kitchen, the kitchen is in the house, 
and so on, until finally we can say that the water is in “world 
space” (BT 79).
T
Objects such as the glass and the table are, in Heidegger’s 
vocabulary, “things occurring ‘within’ the world” (BT 79).
T
Therefore they have a different kind of being from Dasein. The
table and the glass are whats; their characteristics are categorical.
While the table and the glass can have a location-relationship
within the world, the water is not in the glass in the same way that
a human being is in-the-world. 
Dasein, on the other hand, is a who, and its characteristics
are existential, which define an existence structure quite different
from that of a table. This is, of course, on one level obvious. 
But Heidegger, remember, is languaging a view of the world 
that is very different from our everyday way of understanding
things. Therefore he is rigorous in setting out the terminological 
differences between states of being.
A chair can be next to the wall, but the chair can never touch
the wall, “even if the space between them should be equal to
zero” (BT 81). Heidegger is not making a sensory distinction but 
T
an ontological one. To touch is to encounter meaningfully, and 
such meaningful encounters are possible only for entities with
meaning. In Heidegger’s vocabulary, a table and a chair are 
worldless.
Werner Erhard can be seen as distinguishing worldlessness 
early in The Forum, in his interactions with participants on the
subject of whether the rain falls in order to water the flowers. In 
doing so, he is beginning to create an understanding of meaning 
as a human characteristic, rather than an aspect of the things out
there in the world. This distinction will be further developed later 


=== END OF PAGE 35 ===

=== PAGE 36 ===

22
SPEAKING BEING
RAY
Thank you.
Shortly before the fi rst break of the morning, Erhard introduced a new topic: 
ERHARD
The next subject is the matter of your being here. At the upcoming break, you will be given an 
opportunity to leave and have your money refunded. You want to listen up! I’m going to give
you the opportunity not to be here. You shouldn’t be here if you didn’t put yourself here. The 
Forum won’t work for you anyhow, so you’re wasting your time here. You shouldn’t be here if 
you’re here because you were threatened. We don’t allow people to participate in The Forum
who were coerced or threatened. You may have been here on that basis up till now. You can 
leave now and you’ll get all your money back. And if you’ll get in trouble with whoever you’re
here for, I’ll write a note that says that you begged and pleaded and tried to stay here and I 
threw you out. If you’re here because you were pressured into being here, would you stand up 
please?
(one participant stood)
Anybody else?
(another long pause as another stood) 
I’m going to say “Anybody else?” fi ve more times.
Eventually several people stood in response to his request, and he began to interact with them
individually. The interactions varied strikingly in their tone. With the fi rst participant, a teenager 
named Kathy, Erhard’s manner was quite gentle. He moved closer to her, standing at a distance of 
about four feet. Before beginning the conversation, he asked her if she was willing to interact with 
him in front of the group, acknowledging that it might be “scary” for her to do so. He then reiterat-
ed his assertion that pressure, like embarrassment and hustle, was a clearing she was bringing to 
the circumstances:
ERHARD (continuing)
I know that if you’re here because somebody pressured you to be here, that that’s an issue in 
your life. The only people who experience being pressured about The Forum are those for 
whom pressure is an issue. I’m giving you the opportunity to make a choice. Now that I’ve
given you the choice, would you like to leave or would you like to be here? There will be no bad
results from you leaving. You’ll get your money back. 
KATHY 
That’s good. I feel like I have the opportunity to choose now, whereas, before, I didn’t feel like
that.
on the first day when participants’ stories about the events in 
their lives are distinguished from the events themselves.
Human beings exist in a world of meaning, and their 
relationship with that world is fundamental. In-ness is an aspect
of Dasein’s existence from the ground up. Consider: a human
being never exists as a (meaningful) human being until she exists
in-the-world, and when she leaves the world (dies), she ceases to
exist (as a human being). Heidegger’s German term for the Being-
in relationship (Sein bei) carries the implication of what we would
call being at home (BT 80, note 3). Dasein is at home in the world,
T
Being-with others. “Being-with” is examined in the first sidebar of 
Session One of Day Two, and we address the “world” of Being-in-
the-world at the beginning of Session One of Day Four. ■


=== END OF PAGE 36 ===

=== PAGE 37 ===

 
Forum Day One: Session One 
23
ERHARD
I only do this work with people for whom it’s going to be successful, so I’m not willing to do 
this work except on the basis that people chose to be here. What’s your choice?
KATHY
I choose to be in The Forum. 
ERHARD
No coercion? That’s your choice? Made freely?
KATHY
Yes. 
ERHARD
Thank you for going through the process in front of all these people.
Along with Kathy, two other people sat down. The only participant who remained standing was a 
young man in the front row named Bill, who spoke as soon as an assistant got a microphone to him:
BILL (angrily)
I think there’s kind of a thin line between choice and being compelled to do something because
someone cared enough to continuously call me up and get me here.
ERHARD (moving in to a face-to-face stance with Bill)
You’re an asshole, and somebody...
BILL
Your language is bad.
ERHARD
It’s much worse than you think it is. You don’t want to fuck with me.
BILL
You don’t scare me.
ERHARD
You’re in my game, my friend, you don’t want to fuck with me.
BILL
Someone should use language to try to clear a point.
ERHARD
I understand what you believe. I’m not interested.


=== END OF PAGE 37 ===

=== PAGE 38 ===

24
SPEAKING BEING
BILL
That’s quite obvious.
ERHARD
Now do you have something to say that’s thoughtful? Because I’m not interested in your beliefs.
BILL
You’re competing with me in your lack of thoughtfulness in the terminology that you use on a 
regular basis, my friend.
ERHARD
Really?
BILL
Yes. Thoughtfulness is as thoughtfulness does. To be thoughtful I would expect a mutual kind
of communication.
ERHARD
You got a mutual kind of communication. You got bullshit for bullshit.
BILL
Thank you very much. You are quite impressive.
ERHARD
Thank you. Are you here because you were pressured into being here?
BILL
I drove here.
ERHARD
I understand. Were you pressured into being here? I know you’re not here because you were 
pressured into being here. I can take one look at you and know that wasn’t true. I know you’re
up there to fuck with me.
BILL
Now...
ERHARD
Hold on, let me talk for a while. So you’re going to tell me the story about people called you a 
lot of times and people kept inviting you and kept saying you were supposed to. Understand? 
That’s the story you’re going to tell me and I already know the story. You won’t be the fi rst
person with that story. This is a story I’ve heard a lot of times. Now why was I bad with you 
MOOD
Heidegger’s masterwork, Being and Time, presents a model of 
human being that focuses on our lived, everyday experience. This
“average everydayness,” he says, has been generally disregarded
in attempts to understand our nature. It is so apparent and well-
known to us that we fail to recognize the ontological significance
of its elements. One of these elements is mood.
Mood, or state-of-mind (
d Befindlichkeit) is a manifestation of 
the moment-to-moment way one is automatically attuned to the 
world. My mood provides a context—a background environment—
in which I move; it pervades and colors my relationship to 
whatever I am up to at any moment, for instance, when Erhard 
says “your pessimism is you.” In bad moods, “Dasein becomes 
blind to itself” (BT 175). And while we may not notice it, says
T
Heidegger, a human being always has some mood, even when its 
specific nature is elusive: 
The pallid, evenly balanced lack of mood, 
which is oft en persistent and which is not to be 
mistaken for a bad mood, is far from nothing
at all. Rather, it is in this that Dasein becomes 
satiated with itself. Being has become
manifest as a burden. Why that should be, one
does not know.
w (BT 173) 
T
“
Furthermore, “when we master a mood, we do so by way
of a counter-mood; we are never free of moods” (BT 175). Mood
T
is the persistent background of our lives. Our moods come over 
us, and our cognition cannot reach their source: “The pure ‘that 
it is’ shows itself, but the ‘whence’ and the ‘whither’ remain in 
darkness” (BT 173).
T
This last point will be seen as significant as The Forum 
approaches its climax: we are always brought before ourselves


=== END OF PAGE 38 ===

=== PAGE 39 ===

 
Forum Day One: Session One 
25
just now? Because I want to get this story up. There’s a lot of people with that story here and
I want to get that story killed. I got people’s attention here. I got your attention too, but more
important: I got their attention.
(to the group)
I know you’ve got a story about how you got here. That’s your story. I don’t know what the truth 
is. I know Bill was a pain in the ass.
BILL
Thank you.
ERHARD
You were, and you probably are most of the time. Do other people in here know you?
BILL
I’m not sure.
ERHARD
If I had a group of your friends here and asked them, “can Bill be a real pain in the ass?” what 
would they say? 
BILL 
Well I imagine if they pushed me to extremes...
(laughter)
ERHARD (shaking his head)
Wait, wait. That’s not what I mean. I mean, if I said to your friends, “can Bill be a real pain in
the ass?” what would they say? I would bet they would say “yes.” More than infrequently.
BILL
What about your friends?
ERHARD
Let me explain something to you.
BILL
You put me on the spot, why can’t I put you on the spot?
ERHARD
I didn’t pay to be in here, you did. Because you invested $625 to come to my seminar. But if I
leave here and I’m still an asshole, I didn’t lose anything. If you’ve got a seminar that keeps you 
in our moods, but we tend to turn away from what they might 
reveal. In moods, we find ourselves, but “in a way of finding which 
arises not so much from a direct seeking as rather from a fleeing”
(BT 174). In our assured, everyday way of speaking, we dismiss
T
a state-of-mind, or rather, an attunement, as “just a mood I’m 
in.” But in doing so, we evade a more primordial disclosure, an
understanding which stares us in the face “with the inexorability
of an enigma” (BT 175). 
T
At this early point in the proceedings, Erhard is making two 
important moves. First, he is suggesting to the participants that
the nature of their moods is not what they have taken them to
be. They are not a product of the circumstances, but are instead 
an aspect of their own way of being. Second, he is urging the
participants not to attempt to avoid or transcend their moods,
however uncomfortable they may seem, but rather to allow them,
and to bring them into The Forum so that they can be part of the 
process. As The Forum proceeds, these suggestions will be seen
as crucial to the development of the ontological dialogue. ■


=== END OF PAGE 39 ===

=== PAGE 40 ===

26
SPEAKING BEING
from being an asshole, send me a fl yer, and I will decide if that’s the seminar that’ll handle my 
being an asshole.
BILL
You know I have to say something. The only value I’ve gotten so far is entertainment from your 
cynicism.
ERHARD
You remember when I said you would be sitting there with your judgments and assessments?
BILL
Believe me, I’m here with an open mind.
This interaction, which was in its early moments the most belligerent of the entire four days, grad-
ually became playful. Bill began to smile, and the dialogue assumed the character of good-natured
sparring.
ERHARD
Back to the issue of pressure. Did you get a lot of phone calls?
BILL
From one lady in particular. During the process I was trying to prospect her into something 
and in the end she prospected me into something.
(laughter)
ERHARD
I’m not going to ask what you were prospecting her into. But at any rate there was a lady who
called you a number of times.
BILL
She’s married, Werner.
ERHARD
It’s hard to have this conversation with you with your foot nailed to the fl oor. How many times
did she call?
BILL
I don’t know. A half dozen to a dozen times. Perhaps more.
ERHARD
And what did you say to her when she called to talk about The Forum?
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 40 ===

=== PAGE 41 ===

 
Forum Day One: Session One 
27
BILL
I appreciated her concern about my welfare.
ERHARD
Did you really, or were you bullshitting her?
BILL
No.
ERHARD
So you never told her “no,” right?
BILL
Never directly “no.”
ERHARD (turning to the group)
I’m revealing the nature of pressure. That’s what Bill and I are having this conversation
about. Nobody does The Forum because they were pressured into it.
(Erhard placed his hands on Bill’s head and pushed down)
That’s what pressure is. But what had the people from the Center done? They called you. They 
spoke to you. What else did they do? They stayed engaged in the conversation with you because
you never said no.
BILL
They called me every day. 
ERHARD
Every day?
BILL
Well, maybe every other day.
ERHARD (to the group) 
You all have a story, and your story is as full of shit as Bill’s. And I’m using language that’s 
clear enough for everybody to understand.
(to Bill)
Bill, because you’ve been carrying this load for everyone, you can leave now whatever your 
reason.


=== END OF PAGE 41 ===

=== PAGE 42 ===

28
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD (pausing)
You’ve got a story called pressure. You’ve got a story and then there’s what happened.
BILL
I just want to say that I was disillusioned by the salesmanship involved in getting me into the
program...
ERHARD (interrupting)
What is this salesmanship?
BILL
Let me fi nish my sentence!
ERHARD
I’m not interested in your fi nishing your sentence when it’s bullshit.
BILL
Bullshit fl ows both ways.
(laughter)
ERHARD
What is this salesmanship you’re talking about? You wouldn’t have been called any more if 
you’d said no. You said “Call me some more.”
(turning to the group)
If you think you were pressured, I want you to stop lying about it and tell the truth about what 
happened or get out of here. 
BILL 
Why don’t you look at me? These people aren’t interested in being entertained by you on my 
eccentricities.
ERHARD
Bill, I’m more likely to know what they’re interested in than you. Are you able to make a choice 
about being here now that you’ve got a choice? 
BILL (stammering) 
Some of what you’ve done is off ensive to me. I might get something. I don’t know.
ERHARD
Would you make that choice for me?


=== END OF PAGE 42 ===

=== PAGE 43 ===

 Forum Day One: Session One 29
Hesitantly, Bill sat down.
ERHARD
Do I take that to mean that you’ve chosen to be here?
BILL
Yes. 
ERHARD (to the group)
All Bill’s doing is doing you a favor. He’s letting you see yourself. That’s an extraordinary gift, 
to see yourself.
(turning back to Bill)
I want to apologize to you for saying things that you found off ensive. Do you accept my 
apology?
BILL
Yes, I do. 
ERHARD 
I’m not clear you’re here because you chose to be here.
BILL 
Yes. But I’m not clear if I’ll get the results.
 ERHARD
And you won’t be. How The Forum works is you learn nothing. And then you learn more noth-
ing. And then you learn it all at once. It’s an all of a sudden phenomenon. 
(pausing) 
What we just went through is very important. I brought something to that conversation that’s 
designed to leave you in a diff erent place about those conversations. I predict that when The
Forum is over you’ll tell me this was the most important experience in your whole life. We’ll
see. There’s a bit of a risk here, and I accept that.
Erhard fi nally left Bill, and addressed the group, moving among them.
ERHARD
Nobody participates in programs that I lead because they were pressured. A lot of people are 
here because they’ve got reasons to be here. And I want you to know you’re not here because 
of your reasons. You put yourself in that chair, and not your reasons. You’ve got a story called
force, and what actually happened was somebody spoke to you. If you live in a story called 
force, your life will look like a response to force. See, most of you live in response to a story you 
made up. You live in a sea of reasons. But I want you to be clear, you put yourself in that chair,
“
 If you live in a story called force, your life
will look like a response to force.
NOTE: Please see the final conversation Erhard has with Bill 
near the close of Session Three of Day Four.


=== END OF PAGE 43 ===

=== PAGE 44 ===

30
SPEAKING BEING
not the reasons, nobody else and nothing else. And you have reasons. That’s what I mean by 
people don’t know their ass from a hole in the ground. People don’t know what put them in that
chair. If you’re stuck with this idea that you were pressured, I want you out of here. I’m going 
to say a lot of things in here and you’re only going to get them almost. I know that today you’re
going to get almost nothing I say, because you’re going to put it in the language in which you
dwell. Like “should.” I don’t dwell in the language of should. It’s patently obvious here. I’m 
asking you who’s buried in Grant’s Tomb. This is not hard. You put yourself here.
A participant raised a question about a friend he wanted to do The Forum. He described the man.
PARTICIPANT
Would he feel pressured? 
ERHARD
Yeah, because he’s an asshole.
PARTICIPANT (laughs)
Yeah, that’s true.
ERHARD
You see, you can’t pressure people who are straight. They give clear answers, like “no,” or 
“don’t call me.” I invite people. I want to be clear what I mean by an invitation. An invitation
for me always carries with it the power to decline.
Erhard mounted the platform, and announced a break. However, he said, “in The Forum there are 
no breaks,” so he gave the participants an assignment.
ERHARD
The assignment during the break is to sort out your “story” from “what happened.” Most people 
live in the story and don’t live in the what happened. And there’s something disempowering 
about living in the story instead of living in the what happened. The problem is that you are 
thrown—that’s like already always—you are thrown to the story. You are addicted to the story.
“People don’t like me” and “being insulted” never happen. I’m going to demonstrate insulting. 
I’m going to insult you: I insult you. For the fi rst time in your life you’ve now been insulted as a
what happened. All the other times, someone said something, and you got insulted. People have 
t
said you’re a jerk. But that’s somebody saying “You’re a jerk.” The insult was a story.
t
Having given the assignment, Erhard called Julie, The Forum Supervisor, to the podium. 
ERHARD
Julie’s the person who keeps this organized enough so that it can happen. So your cooperation 
with her is in your interest.
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 44 ===

=== PAGE 45 ===

 
Forum Day One: Session One 
31
After Erhard left the room, Julie requested that due to the size of the group all participants should
be respectful of the hotel. She pointed out the assistants who could direct participants to pay phones
and bathrooms. “We request that you don’t eat on this break,” she said. “If you must eat for medical
reasons, please see Wes,” one of the two Forum leaders who were assisting Erhard. Finally she in-
troduced the other four Forum supervisors who were working with her, and who were available to
answer their questions. Finally, as she would before every break, she read the names of participants
who had received telephone messages during the session.
The Forum adjourned for a break at 12:40 pm.


=== END OF PAGE 45 ===

=== PAGE 46 ===

32
SPEAKING BEING
Hints: Ontological Distinctions
The Forum achieves its result through the development in dialogue of what Werner 
Erhard calls distinctions. In traditional education, based in an epistemological model 
in which the goal is to increase or enhance what is known, information—concepts, 
ideas, processes—are communicated through definition and explanation. The Fo-
rum, however, develops an ontological model of education, in which the goal is not 
an increase in knowledge but an experience of Being. In this model, the elements of 
the course content are distinguished. 
The nature of distinctions will be addressed at length by Erhard later in The 
Forum. But here, early on the first morning, the development of distinctions is al-
ready under way. Erhard is beginning to employ an aspect of his methodology that, 
according to Martin Heidegger, is central to ontological communication: the use of 
hints to communicate what cannot directly be spoken, thereby providing access to 
the content as lived rather than as merely understood. 
Heidegger introduced the idea of hinting as a way of communicating Being in 
his 1959 essay, “A Dialogue on Language” (in OWL), which provides an account of 
his conversation with a Japanese scholar who shared his interest in ontological 
inquiry. The interaction, presented in the form of a transcript, occurs as a stately 
conversational dance, a linguistic minuet. Each move is made with great care, so the 
interaction proceeds at times with excruciating deliberateness. At one point Heide-
gger (referred to in the account as the Inquirer) poses a question—“Do you have in 
your language a word for what we call language?”—to which the scholar arrives at 
a tentative answer only after twenty-three pages of thoughtful circumnavigation in 
and around the topic. 
In response to a remark by the Japanese about language’s “essential being,” 
Heidegger refers to his often-quoted characterization of language as “the house of 
Being.” The phrase, he says, “gives a hint of the nature of language” (“DL” in OWL 
26). As the two men’s dialogue continues, the extraordinary attentiveness given 
to each word reveals a respect for the nature of hints. Hints, Heidegger observes, 
“belong to an entirely different realm of reality. . . . They are enigmatic. They beckon 
to us. They beckon away. They beckon us toward that from which they unexpectedly 
bear themselves toward us” (“DL” in OWL 26).
In his conversation with the Japanese scholar, Heidegger is distinguishing 
hinting, which is to say that he is hinting at the nature of hints. The Forum’s develop-
ment of distinctions is likewise a process of hinting. 
SESSION ONE INTERVAL
In hinting, words are spoken in such a way that “each word in each case is 
given its full—most often hidden—weight” (“DL” in OWL 31). What is not spoken, but 
communicated in the background, is allowed to reverberate. In this way a space is 
allowed to develop around each utterance:
[Inquirer]: Hints need the widest sphere in which to swing. . .
[Japanese]: . . . where mortals go to and fro only slowly.
[Inquirer]: This is what our language calls “hesitate.” It is done 
truly when slowness rests on shy reverence. And so I do not wish to 
disturb your hesitation by urging you on too rashly.
[Japanese]: You are more helpful to me in my attempt to say the 
word than you can know. (“DL” in OWL 27–28)
Further, although each distinction has a rubric for its topic—in this dialogue, the 
topic is the nature of language—in developing distinctions the aim is not to arrive at 
a correct verbal articulation of the rubric. On the contrary, the goal is to avoid such a 
resolution:
[Japanese]: We Japanese do not think it strange if a dialogue 
leaves undefined what is really intended, or even restores it 
back to the keeping of the undefinable.
[Inquirer]: That is part, I believe, of every dialogue that 
has turned out well between thinking beings. As if of its own 
accord, it can take care that that undefinable something not 
only does not slip away, but displays its gathering force ever 
more luminously in the course of the dialogue. (“DL” in OWL 13)
In this conversation, Heidegger and the Japanese scholar may be seen as 
enacting the methodology of The Forum: the dialogic development of distinctions 
through a process of hinting. Being cannot be verbalized. Being is in language, but 
it is not in the words that are spoken. It lives in the unspoken background, and in 
a conversation for Being, that background must be made present. Hints are an 
appropriate form for bringing a background to presence because they direct our 
attention toward something we had not noticed, something which they at the same 
time bring forward to meet us. 
Ontological hinting is not an easy form of communication to master, and by 
characterizing it here as an element of The Forum’s “methodology,” we have fallen 
prey to one of its pitfalls. When Heidegger says to the Japanese scholar that calling 
“
“


=== END OF PAGE 46 ===

=== PAGE 47 ===

Forum Day One: Session One Interval 
33
language “the house of Being” gives a “hint of the nature of language,” the scholar 
immediately recognizes the danger: “I fear that to call your ‘house of Being’ a hint 
might tempt you and me to elaborate the notion of hinting into a guiding concept in 
which we then bundle up everything” (“DL” in OWL).  Heidegger concurs, but adds 
that this error can “never be prevented in the sense of being totally excluded,” since 
“the mode of conceptual representation insinuates itself all too easily into every 
kind of human experience” (“DL” in OWL 25). 
A relevant observation by the senior author: during my years of participation in 
Erhard’s work, the distinguishing of distinctions has remained a source of fascina-
tion, challenge, and even mystery for me. I have observed conversations between 
Forum leaders—people for whom the development of distinctions is central to their 
professional practice—in which the speaking occurred to me as a kind of short-
hand. Elements of everyday interaction—details,  transitions, connections—seemed 
to be missing. On one occasion, a statement by one Forum leader elicited this re-
sponse from another: “You’re explaining it. Distinguish it.” I found myself struggling 
to recognize the difference being referred to. 
An extensive hint at the nature of distinctions is found in Heidegger’s later work, 
where he turned his attention increasingly to the ontological possibilities of art, and 
specifically of poetry. Poetry, he said, is projective saying—that is, a kind of saying 
which projects a clearing for Being by speaking the unspoken. “Projective saying 
is saying which, in preparing the sayable, simultaneously brings the unsayable as 
such into a world” (“OWA” in PLT 71). But such saying is not limited to the speaking 
of the poet, because “Language itself is poetry in the essential sense” (“OWA” in PLT 
72). Indeed, “everyday language is a forgotten and used-up poem, from which there 
hardly resounds a call any longer” (“L” in PLT 205). 
The thinker, says Heidegger elsewhere, confines his thinking to a single 
thought (PLT 4). Heidegger’s single thought was the question of Being. A similar 
single-mindedness characterizes the poet, and so Heidegger’s description of the 
poet’s relation to the unsayable is useful:
Every great poet creates his poetry out of one single 
poetic statement only. . . . The poet’s statement remains 
unspoken. None of his individual poems, nor their totality, 
says it all. Nonetheless, every poem speaks from the whole 
of the one single statement, and in each instance says that 
statement. (“LP” in OWL 160)
“
Therefore all of Heidegger’s writing and all of Werner Erhard’s work, as well as all the 
poetry of Dickinson or Rilke or Wallace Stevens, may be seen as bodies of hints for 
the Saying of what is essentially unsayable.  


=== END OF PAGE 47 ===

=== PAGE 48 ===

34
SPEAKING BEING
During the forty-minute break, statements had been written on two of the chalkboards. On one: 
“Promise of The Forum: You can have anything out of The Forum that you are willing to stand for 
having gotten.” On the second: “The commitment of the work is Transformation: bringing forth a 
breakthrough in the possibility of being for human beings.”
As The Forum resumed, Erhard began with a question.
ERHARD
What happened when you were considering the diff erence between your story and what hap-
pened?
PARTICIPANT
I found that I didn’t want to confront my stories.
ERHARD
It’s possible to live in a kind of unconsciousness that we don’t ordinarily call unconsciousness
because we’re not knocked out. It’s an unconsciousness which appears as not being there. What 
you can’t be with prevents you from being. If you mash up the what happens and the story, it
kind of keeps you a little unconscious, because you don’t have to be with it. But when you start
to distinguish the story from what happened, you begin to see the story as a story, and it’s not 
very attractive that way, is it? And it’s something one would mostly avoid being with. There
will be a lot that will come up in here that you don’t want to be with. It’s useful to be with what
you don’t want to be with. What you’ve already learned to be with and survive with--that’s not 
going to be very useful in here, it’s the part you’ve avoided being with here. Anything else?
Thanks very much.
As participants responded to this question, Erhard contextualized their contributions by expanding
the distinctions he had introduced earlier in the day. 
JOHN
I’ve never really liked my wife’s version of the story of how we got married.
ERHARD
When you can recognize a person’s story as their story, you begin to have access to their version 
of the story, so that you’re not stuck with, you don’t have to resign yourself to, their version of 
the story. You have access to diff erent possibilities within the story, but not when it’s mashed up 
with what happened.
JOHN
I got so upset, I left the room, and while I heard the story from another part of the house, my 
upset turned toward wanting to get out of my marriage.
ERHARD  (interrupting)
You didn’t invent thinking about getting out of your marriage. That’s already always in the cul-
ture of being for human beings. You think, “oh well, this happened and that made me think I 
FORUM DAY ONE: 
SESSION TWO
“ 
When you can recognize a person’s story as
their story, you begin to have access to their 
version of the story, so that you’re not stuck
with, you don’t have to resign yourself to,
their version of the story.


=== END OF PAGE 48 ===

=== PAGE 49 ===

Forum Day One: Session Two 
35
Philosophy as Rhetorical Evocation
We propose that The Forum is an instance of ontological 
rhetoric. We emphasize at the outset that this is not the everyday 
understanding of rhetoric as “mere rhetoric,” that is, language that 
is superficial and disconnected from serious purposes. Rhetoric as 
we use the term is any use of language that is intended to produce 
a real-world result. Ontological rhetoric communicates in the 
unspoken realm of language to provide its listeners with access to 
the realm of Being. 
Recognition of the value and function of ontological 
rhetoric is found in the later writing of Henry W. Johnstone, 
Jr., founder of the journal, Philosophy and Rhetoric. Early in his 
career, Johnstone believed that the role of the philosophical 
rhetor was “to treat his audience as an object,” and that his goal 
should quit or leave.” That’s not the way it works. It’s a rainstorm. Leaving, getting out of things,
quitting—owns your life. It’s true you have the conversation with yourself personally. But that’s 
like getting wet in a rainstorm.
(with emphasis)
I’m not thinking that. That is thinking me.
(pausing)
I’m starting to talk like people don’t talk, because I want access to what concerns me that
people don’t have. So you and I are starting to invent a language that gives us access to the
things that are interesting, or important, that concern us in life. It’s not your thought. I want 
you to start to think that it thinks you. You have the thoughts like you get wet in the rain-
storm. I’m just asking you to begin to think in a way you haven’t thought before. The kind of 
person you are is given by that thinking, which isn’t your thoughts or your thinking.
JOHN
What I noticed was that each of us have diff erent stories about how we got together.
ERHARD
You can’t ask questions like “True?” about people’s stories. There’s no such thing as “true
”
stories.” “True” and “story” don’t go together. A story’s a story. People get into trouble in life
because they start believing their stories. Even worse, you start believing someone else’s story—
makes you a spear-carrier in somebody else’s opera. This is not a good way to live.
JOHN
We did what we did and got married.
ERHARD
Who is not clear about choosing to be married? The conversation about why you’re in The 
Forum could apply as well to you in your job, or your marriage. Almost nobody thinks they 
are anyplace because they put themselves there. But everybody puts themselves there. Then
you get the story about why you’re there. There’s no power in the story... You live in a story 
about being married. I accuse you that you live in a story about being married, and the 
quality of being married reflects that it in part is generated by a story. I didn’t say you don’t
have a good marriage. But it’s limited to a certain box, a certain space or quality, when it’s a 
story. What happened? You got married. Then there’s this whole story. And they’re distinct
from one another. The same thing is true about everything in life. See, you and I have the 
kind of lives that people would have if they lived out of a story. And mostly the story is 
constituted mostly by your reasons. But you got that job. That’s what happened.
JOHN
Normally I know that, but I wasn’t clear about that last night. It’s so easy to forget.


=== END OF PAGE 49 ===

=== PAGE 50 ===

36
SPEAKING BEING
was “to manipulate his audience so as to secure agreement” 
(“Persuasion” 19). But a “turn” in Johnstone’s thinking led him 
to acknowledge by 1978 that “the distinction between finding 
the truth in philosophy and finding the proper rhetorical devices 
for propagating it cannot be maintained” (“Truth” 74). In other 
words, “truth” is always and already rhetorical, never severed 
from its communication, and thus finding the “truth” requires 
holding up a pretense that rhetoric is merely a convenient 
accessory that can be dispensed with.
 Johnstone’s new perspective of the philosophy–rhetoric 
relationship was based in the concept of evocation: “My present 
view is that a successful argument in philosophy is one that is 
intended to evoke, and does evoke, a response of a certain kind 
in the man to whom it is addressed” (“Truth” 75). Johnstone cited 
Heidegger as evidence for this view, and his description here of 
Heidegger’s language use is consistent with our understanding of 
both Heidegger’s and Erhard’s thinking:
ERHARD
That’s why we don’t give you anything to remember. You just have to be.
HANNAH
There’s a new babysitter watching the baby while I’m here and I got a note at the break to call
and I immediately felt terror because six months ago there was an accident that threatened his
life.
ERHARD
You understand that the terror is of no value to her? You sympathize with the terror. When you
leave here you’ll be a little more ruthless than you are now. You’ll be concerned for what em-
powers people, not for sympathizing with their weaknesses. No empowerment in terror.
HANNAH
I had lost closeness with him. It was more about clinging, and I saw that it was more about
terror.
ERHARD
Major issues like parenting or confronting death generate the most persistent stories. The things 
that are real close to us are hard not to be stupid about. It’s hard to be with that people do die.
And you are going to die. And that’s hard to be with. The more dramatic the soap opera is the
easier it is to get drawn into it and not be able to distinguish the story from what happened.
MAX
I’m here because I want my life to stop being an emergency, in my personal and professional 
life. I am an upset waiting to happen.
ERHARD
Some of you are an argument waiting to happen. You’re waiting for the occasion to act out the 
argument.
MAX
Turning away from my story to what happened is like becoming an arbitrator. It helps me get 
away from my guilt.
ERHARD
If guilt were useful, I would say have a lot of it. Listen up here! This is another one of those 
things you want to get. Feeling guilty makes it all right that you did something. If you didn’t feel 
guilty you’d be a bad person. That’s not terrible to be a bad person. No, it’s all right to do some-
thing as long as you feel guilty about it. Guilt is the salve we put on something that we did so
that we don’t have to be responsible for it. But you don’t know what I’m talking about because
you don’t know the diff erence between guilt and responsibility at this point. Max?
If I am correct in arguing that Heidegger 
conceives philosophy as basically rhetorical, 
some revision in our conception of rhetoric 
is called for. . . its purpose is not to incite its 
hearer to action—even the action of adopting 
some specific belief. Instead, rhetoric totally 
reorients the hearer; if he listens to it he is in 
a position to abandon an inauthentic life in 
favor of an authentic one. (“Rhetoric” 68)
“
On this view, the truth of philosophy is intimately infused with 
its communicability: “discovery, communication, and rhetoric all 
collapse into a unitary philosophical act” (“Truth” 76). Further, 
communicability is manifested as evocation: “The only way to tell 
whether what I have is a truth or a falsehood,” said Johnstone, “is 
to contemplate its evocative power.” And rhetoric, he added, is “the 
art of evocation” (“Truth” 76).
Finally, Johnstone’s discussion of Heidegger raises a third issue 
which will be particularly relevant in our analysis of The Forum: that 
is the question of the appropriate rhetorical style for addressing an 


=== END OF PAGE 50 ===

=== PAGE 51 ===

Forum Day One: Session Two 
37
MAX
The story is that I joined the service, and went to Vietnam. And my welcome home isn’t what
I expected. What happened was, I went to war and came back alive. Same as any other war, 
there’s...it’s cleared up a lot of issues to look at it as what happened rather than my story in
relation to my coming home.
ERHARD (with emphasis)
Listen up! Vietnam’s a great, great story. Lot of people badly, badly fucked up by the story. Notice 
I didn’t say by what happened? Lots of people profoundly disabled by the story. Lot of freedom
for people to start to distinguish the story from what happened. Thanks Max.
Erhard shifted his tone, calling attention to the process they had been engaged in: they had devel-
oped a number of distinctions as tools for their inquiry.
ERHARD
We’re going to get these tools sharpened up as we proceed. Your questions are useful. You notice 
I’ve done most of what I’ve done out of people’s speaking. This is not a lecture, that’s why we 
call it The Forum. This is a dialogue. My job is to manage the dialogue, not to lecture. I have 
no pipeline to the truth. No one is asking you to believe anything that is said in here. But I’m 
asking you to think about it. That’s diff erent from “reject” or “accept” it. Instead, see what the
world looks like standing in that idea. It doesn’t matter whether you agree or not. To tell the
truth, I’m not that impressed with you yet, to care whether you agree or not. I do want to hear 
what you have to say. I’m not interested in your agreement or approval, or endorsement. I am
interested in you looking at what we’re saying here, to think about it yourself. And the way I’d 
like you to do that is to not judge it or evaluate it to see if it fi ts with what you already think. If 
I say anything that fi ts with what you already think, you shouldn’t be here. You can forget all 
that. Anything I say that fi ts with what you already think: that’s not The Forum. Only what I
say that doesn’t fi t with the stuff  you think, that provokes you to think and see things in a new 
way: that’s what’s valuable. But this isn’t the truth either. I don’t know about the truth. I know 
how to talk so that people have new possibility in their life. If you talk with me, you can bet that 
you’ll walk away with a new possibility in your life.
Now he introduced a new way to address what has already been the subject of the discussion.
ERHARD (continuing)
We’re going to talk about existence. That’s what we’ve been talking about. It’s hard to talk about. 
It’s hard to pick yourself up by your own bootstraps. It’s got to exist to talk about it. If you’re go-
ing to question existence—talk about existence—it’s got to exist to talk about it. The word for a 
concern for existence is ontology. And the reason I bring up that fancy sounding word is I want 
you to know The Forum is not psychological. Most people can’t tell the diff erence. Psychology 
is pervasive in our culture. The structure for interpretation for most people in this culture is psy-
chological. We’re all amateur psychologists. You see everything through a psychological lens.
untransformed audience whom one intends, through one’s rhetorical 
transactions, to transform. Johnstone stated the problem this way:
Heidegger’s entire position is specifically 
committed to the task of awakening phi-
listines from their ontological slumber 
. . . . Das Man [the “they,” the philistine, the 
untransformed] expects to be told in plain En-
glish what he can in fact come to understand 
only by being awakened. But because Heide-
gger’s entire thrust is toward the awakening 
of das Man he cannot reject as a mere philis-
tine the man who fails to understand him. In 
Heidegger’s own terms, he is not successful 
until he has reached the philistine. Hence in 
a sense there are no philistines at all for him. 
(“Rhetoric” 68) 
“
How does one awaken people from a debilitating slumber if 
they resist the process which is necessary for their awakening? 
This question, as we will show, is a central one for the rhetorical 
process of The Forum. ■
“ 
Only what I say that doesn’t fit with stuff  
you think, that provokes you to think and 
see things in a new way: that’s what’s
valuable.


=== END OF PAGE 51 ===

=== PAGE 52 ===

38
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD (pausing to wake a participant who was nodding off ) 
It’s okay to sleep in here if you can do it bolt upright with your eyes open. 
(returning to his topic)
Ontology is the diff erence between knowing how to play tennis and being a tennis player. They 
don’t teach this in school for the most part, and when they do, they do it badly for the most part.
An ontological approach—that is to say, a concern-for-being approach—has got a lot of room in
it because it’s something we haven’t engaged in very much. The point is, there’s a lot of room 
in a new realm. The psychological approach is one we’ve pushed really hard. And I want to be 
clear I’m not denigrating it. And that’s not our approach.
(moving to one of the blackboards) 
So far, we’ve distinguished two realms of existence. A phenomenon can exist in the realm of 
story and it can exist in the realm of what happened.
Erhard drew two circles on the board: in the left circle he wrote the word  “Story,” and in the right he
wrote “What Happened.”
ERHARD (indicating the left circle)
Max gave us a good example. There’s the story of Vietnam and that’s here. And there’s what
happened, and that’s here.
(indicating the right circle in which he wrote “what happened”)
We’re going to see what happens when you begin to distinguish these two. You’re going to see
the impact it has on your ability and state of being to distinguish Vietnam “the story” and Viet-
nam “the what happened.” You can apply the demonstration anywhere. We need to talk about 
thinking. Listen up. This is hard. Human beings have the notion that they think. Or—I might 
as well introduce this—they are that they think. They be like they’re thinking. And there is 
something happening. You and I call that “I think.” Here’s an exercise to tell if you’re thinking.
I’m going to shut up and you’re going to stop thinking.
(pausing for about fi fteen seconds)
You didn’t make it, did you? Nobody ever does, because it’s not you thinking. If you were
thinking then you could stop thinking. It is thinking, and you are having the thoughts it thinks.
t
Which is true? The old way of saying it or the way I said it? That’s not the point. I told you,
I don’t know the truth. I’m saying there’s something empowering about this, in the recogni-
tion that you don’t think. Like: “Hmm. I’m not thinking. It’s thinking, and I’m having those 
thoughts.” What comes up when you think this way is the possibility of actually thinking. 
Thinking is a process independent of those thoughts. Thinking is something like sitting with,
or more precisely something like dwelling in. It’s not like fi guring it out. You see, I asked you to
g
dwell in the possibility that it’s not you thinking.
(pausing again to address a number of people in the room who were getting sleepy) 
It always happens about now. Thinking about thinking puts you to sleep. Thinking wakes you
g
up. Thinking is when you have to break your mind—though not all of that is thinking. Some of 
it is bullshit.
“ 
It is thinking, and you are having the thoughts
t
it thinks. . . . Thinking is something like
sitting with, or more precisely something like
dwelling in. It’s not like figuring it out.


=== END OF PAGE 52 ===

=== PAGE 53 ===

Forum Day One: Session Two
39
(turning to The Forum Supervisor) 
Julie, would you ask Eric to get the Heidegger books out of my room.
(returning to the blackboard, and pointing to the circle labeled “story”)
I want to take back making this bad. What’s disempowering is not the story, what’s disempow-
ering is when you collapse “what happened” with the “story” and you can’t distinguish the story 
from what happened. You can’t distinguish because you’ve got this mush, this mess, this swamp
of what happened and the story mixed together. The two need to be distinct. What does distinct 
mean? It means existing then on their own, being there of themselves. It’s possible for Vietnam 
to exist as a story and it’s possible for Vietnam to exist as a what happened. They’re two distinct 
realms of existence. Sometimes the story is appropriate, sometimes what happened is appropri-
ate. What’s never appropriate is when these two distinctions get collapsed.
As this conversation developed, Erhard added other terms to his blackboard model. In the right
circle, below “what happened,” he wrote “presence” and “I’m late.” In the other, below “story,” was 
written “concept” and “reasons.”
ERHARD
Confusing what happened with your story about it is like ordering steak and then mixing the
steak with the menu. Most people think life is sour because they’ve been eating the menu for 
so long, they don’t recognize reading the menu. You should not say “I love you” to people. You 
should say, “I live with the concept ‘I love you.’” Love as a concept is sometimes important, but
t
it isn’t the same as love as a presence. What falls out of my mouth when I say “chair” is a con-
cept. It’s not a chair—but it’s useful. Just separating the two domains of existence in any area of 
your life will leave you with more power in that area. For this to work, try it on in your own life. 
This is not the truth. Try it on. If it works, good; if not, throw it away.
At this point, The Forum Supervisor brought Erhard a copy of Heidegger’s What is Called Thinking? 
(1968, pages 76-77). He spent a minute looking for the passage he wanted, and fi nally turned back 
to her.
ERHARD
This is the wrong copy. This is not the copy I can fi nd things in. I have two marked copies and I 
can fi nd things in one and not the other.
Julie brought up the correct copy.
ERHARD (beginning to read)
“People still hold the view that what is handed down to us by tradition is what in reality lies 
behind us—while in fact it comes toward us because we are its captives and destined to it.”
(pausing)
We think we’re out in front of tradition on the leading edge. He’s talking about where the rub-
ber meets the road. This is not some fancy talk.


=== END OF PAGE 53 ===

=== PAGE 54 ===

40
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD (loudly)
He’s talking about your future. He’s saying you’ve got no future. Your future is constituted by 
the past. Listen up! This is not a guy in a diner, by the way.
(shifting tone)
Where’s the person I had that conversation with?
Doris, with whom he had earlier discussed whether she knew her “ass from a hole in the ground,” 
stood.
ERHARD
Did I leave you insulted, by the way?
(Doris looking hesitant) 
Can I withdraw the insult? Will you forgive me? 
(nodding, she then sits)
Thank you.
(continuing to read)
“The purely historical view of tradition and the course of history is one of those vast self-de-
ceptions in which we must remain entangled as long as we are still not really thinking. That
self-deception about history prevents us from hearing the language of the thinkers. We do not 
hear it rightly, because we take that language to be mere expression, setting forth philosophers’
views.”
(to the group)
Some people are actually thinking, and speaking their thinking. That’s diff erent from “saying 
g
what you’ve got on your mind.” But the thinkers’ language tells what it is. And hearing it is in
no case easy. Hearing it presupposes that we meet a certain requirement, and we do so only on
rare occasions. So there’s a requirement to be able to hear thinking. And you can bet your hat, 
ass, and overcoat that the same requirement exists for thinking. And here’s the requirement.
(continuing to read)
“We must acknowledge and respect it. To acknowledge and respect consists in letting ev-
ery thinker’s thought come to us as something in each case unique, never to be repeated,
inexhaustible.”
(to the group)
You will notice that everything that has been said in here today you have associated with
something else. In order to have it live by itself, you have to think. Association happens anyhow,
because you’re not doing it. It’s doing it.
“ 
Your future is constituted by the past.


=== END OF PAGE 54 ===

=== PAGE 55 ===

Forum Day One: Session Two
41
(continuing to read)
“—and being shaken to the depths by what is unthought in his thought.”
(to the group)
It’s like what is unsaid, but there by virtue of what is said. Anything that’s going to make a dif-
ference will be unsaid. Did you ever care about speaking in such a way that what you didn’t say 
was present? Probably not. But that’s where making a diff erence lies. 
(continuing to read)
“What is unthought in a thinker’s thought is not a lack inherent in his thought. What is un-
thought is there in each case only as the un-thought. The more original the thinking, the richer
will be what is unthought in it. The unthought is the greatest gift that thinking can bestow.”
(to the group)
Listen up real good to this part!
(continuing to read)
“But to the commonplaces of sound common sense, what is unthought in any thinking always 
remains merely the incomprehensible. And to the common comprehension, the incompre-
hensible is never an occasion to stop and look at its own powers of comprehension, still less to 
notice their limitations. To the common comprehension, what is incomprehensible remains 
forever merely off ensive...”
(to the group)
Where Heidegger uses the word “off ensive,” I say “it’s bullshit.” It’s a little clearer the way I say 
it, isn’t it? It’s more rigorous the way he says it, but it’s a little easier to get the way I say it.
(continuing to read)
“—proof enough to such comprehension, which is convinced it was born comprehending
everything, that it is now being imposed upon with an untruth and a sham. The one thing of 
which sound common sense is least capable is acknowledgment and respect.”
(to the group)
The distinction I’m developing between the story and what happened is not the commonsense
understanding. Love as a concept is what you and I live with most of the time, not love as a
presence. If you uncollapse the domains, you can have presence and story. It’s not worth a 
damn if you don’t map it onto your own life. Take something you’re concerned about—and by 
concern I don’t mean something you’re worried about. Take something you care about.
As the time for the second break of the day approached, Erhard moved to  another topic.
ERHARD (continuing)
We’re now going to talk about promises. There are certain promises you must make in order 
to participate in The Forum. You didn’t know that. This is a change! An occasion for upset! It’s 
very hard to talk about promises to people who don’t know what a promise is. Who you are is a 
“ 
Did you ever care about speaking in such a
way that what you didn’t say was present?
Probably not. But that’s where making a
diff erence lies.


=== END OF PAGE 55 ===

=== PAGE 56 ===

42
SPEAKING BEING
person who goes around pretending you’re going to do what you say you’ll do. Isn’t it true that 
you present yourself as someone who’ll do what you say you’ll do? But isn’t it true that maybe 
you’ll do it and maybe you won’t? And you always justify it. Everybody does what they can’t
justify not doing. Why is that?
t
PARTICIPANT
If justifi cation equals doing it, when you don’t have a justifi cation for not doing it, then you
have to do it.
ERHARD
That’s a little sophisticated for us today.
ANOTHER PARTICIPANT
Because I want to be right.
ERHARD
You do what you feel like, or what is convenient, but you justify it so you can be right.
(pausing)
Diogenes looked for an honest man. I want to fi nd someone who is late. I’m fi fty-four years old 
and I’ve never found anyone who’s just late. It’s always “I’m late” plus the reason. By the way,
(pointing to the “what happened” circle) 
here’s “I’m late”...
(pointing to the “story” circle) 
...and here’s the reason. Being late is in a totally diff erent realm than the reason for being late.
And the two are not related. “I’m late” and the reasons arise in diff erent realms of existence. 
They’re apples and oranges. They don’t go together.
(to a drowsy participant) 
Remember the rules about sleeping. You’ve got to do it bolt upright. You may make it before the
week is over.
He tossed the chalk he was holding at another participant, who remained seated during the follow-
ing exchange.
ERHARD
Only bolt upright can your eyes be closed.
PARTICIPANT 
They weren’t closed.
“ 
Isn’t it true that you present yourself as 
someone who’ll do what you say you’ll do? 
But isn’t it true that maybe you’ll do it and
maybe you won’t?
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 56 ===

=== PAGE 57 ===

Forum Day One: Session Two
43
ERHARD
I apologize.
PARTICIPANT
Yeah, sure.
ERHARD
Is that like “fuck you”? Do you mean “I don’t feel apologize”? I’m not my feelings. I’m my 
mouth. You’re not your mouth. You say “okay” when you mean “Fuck you.”
PARTICIPANT
Not always.
ERHARD
You did that time.
PARTICIPANT 
That’s true.
Throughout this interaction Erhard’s style was relaxed but direct.
ERHARD (to the group)
The truth is that whether you keep your word depends on how you feel. Create this possibility: 
that you present yourself as someone who keeps your word, but in fact does or does not depend-
ing on whether you feel like it. Try on that possibility. “Honor your promise” means something 
like keep them in spite of the circumstances. Try on this possibility: that you present yourself as
f
someone who keeps your word, but in fact are someone who does or does not keep your word 
depending on whether you feel like it. Try that on. I say that if you do that you will have the 
freedom to honor your word. I know more about lying than most people in this room. I’ve lied 
more than most people in this room, and I know the kind of life it gives. And it’s my observation
that you’re never going to be able to honor your word until you can be with yourself in the way 
in which I just accused you of being. I say that until you can be with that, you can’t honor your 
word. By the way, I want to introduce a phrase here: that would be called being authentic about 
being inauthentic. Who doesn’t get this?
MARY 
I know that sometimes I won’t keep my word.
ERHARD
But you don’t present yourself as that.


=== END OF PAGE 57 ===

=== PAGE 58 ===

44
SPEAKING BEING
MARY
No, I do what I do.
ERHARD
You say, “Hey Werner, I’m going to meet you tomorrow at noon...”
MARY
And I’ll get there at two.
ERHARD
But you don’t say, “But Werner, I may show up and I may not.”
MARY
No.
ERHARD
That’s the inauthenticity. If you went around saying to people, “Look, I’ll give my word, and
maybe I’ll keep it and maybe I won’t.” Nothing inauthentic about that—that’s quite straight.
MARY
And I’m right about that.
ERHARD
We’ll discuss more about that later. You get what I mean about that being inauthentic? Anybody 
who can’t see that?
JAKE
I make the best eff ort to... I don’t understand.
ERHARD
Let me tell you how I listen. I just told you that one and one equals two. And I asked you if you 
got that, and you said you’re confused. So I think you’ve got something going on in this area.
JAKE
That’s one of the reasons why I raised my hand.
ERHARD
You’re not confused; you’ve got something going on.
JAKE
I’ve got something going on.
Getting It and Losing It
The Forum content is communicated through the gradual 
development of a series of distinctions. These distinctions off er 
access to a certain way of being; they are ontological clearings, 
contexts of meaning. They shape the way the circumstances of 
life occur so that a new way of being with those circumstances 
arises naturally. The new way of being becomes a possibility when 
the distinction is “gotten”—in Heideggerian terms, in a moment 
of Augenblick, or ontological insight. Thus the purpose of The 
Forum is to have participants “get” the distinctions deeply enough 
during the course of the four days that they leave The Forum 
dwelling in those distinctions. As Erhard told The Forum leaders 
during a debriefing, “What makes a diff erence is that there is a 
conversation generated that distinguishes the distinction, and that 
they’re dwelling in the conversation,” that is, they are “used by” 
the distinction rather than caught up trying to remember a piece of 
information as a precondition to being able to apply it.


=== END OF PAGE 58 ===

=== PAGE 59 ===

Forum Day One: Session Two
45
ERHARD
What have you got going on?
JAKE
I’m one of those people who stood up that said I’m a person of my word.
ERHARD
And you’re not. Isn’t that true? You do what you say you’re gonna do?
JAKE
I damn well try.
ERHARD
Very good. “I am a person who will do what I say I am going to do, when in fact, I am only a 
person who will try to do what I said I will do, and what I mean by try is, given the way I see 
things, which will be generated by my feelings, my mood, if I can see that I can’t do it, I won’t
do it. But I’m not gonna tell you that. I’m going to tell you that I’m a person of my word.”
Erhard sat on the edge of the platform facing Jake.
ERHARD (continuing)
Try to sit down.
(Jake sat) 
No, you sat down.
(Jake stood)
I didn’t say sit down. Try to sit down.
(again he sat)
No, you’re sitting. I said try to sit.
JAKE
I’m not getting it.
ERHARD
You’re getting it. You don’t like it. Trying to sit down looks a lot like standing up. You’re just a 
bullshit artist. That’s not a bad thing to be, by the way. It’s just a thing with no power.
JAKE
I’m getting that, but I don’t see the point. What is it worth?
The Heideggerian notion of “dwelling” is central to the way 
in which The Forum material is to be assimilated. Dwelling, for 
Erhard, is synonymous with “coming from”—that is, to dwell 
in a context is to come from that context into one’s life, or to 
allow oneself to be given being by that context. Heidegger 
called dwelling “the basic character of Being in keeping with 
which mortals exist” (“BDT” in PLT 158). Dwelling, for Heidegger, 
designates that ontological state in which we attain our essential 
relatedness to the world, so we must “think for the sake of 
dwelling” (“BDT” in PLT 159).
However, a point that we will introduce here and to which 
we will return throughout this book, is that Being withdraws. The 
ontological communication of The Forum, the speaking of Being, 
occurs always in this precarious context: it wavers on the brink 
of concealment. Thus the process of dwelling-in-a-distinction 
consists of repeatedly “getting” and “losing” that distinction. 
Erhard consistently tells his audiences that if they “got it and it 
went away,” that is the appropriate way to assimilate ontological 
communication: “That’s the way it’s supposed to happen,” he says, 
“getting and losing and getting and losing and getting and losing” 
(“Beyond the Winning Formula”). This is an essential aspect of the 
ontological rhetoric whose nature we are developing here, and it is 
consistent with the authors’ own experience of having participated 
in Werner Erhard’s programs: the insights that we have attained in 
the process have occurred waveringly.
As we have participated over the years in courses and 
seminars based in Erhard’s work, something would oft en be 
said which in that instant produced an illuminating insight, but 
which seemed, a moment or an hour later, to be simply words, 
or even incomprehensible jargon. Longitudinally, however—over 
the years of our participation in this work—we are aware of a 
parallel development: a gradually increasing dwelling-in the way 
of being that has been opened up by the distinctions which we are 
simultaneously getting and losing. Further, this ongoing dwelling-
in has, over the years, become more salient than the getting 
and losing. That is, we notice that we increasingly act from the 


=== END OF PAGE 59 ===

=== PAGE 60 ===

46
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
Let me tell you something, my friend. You’re not going to get anything out of here you can do 
something with. Do you think I’m going to give an asshole tools? What you walk out of here 
with will give you freedom. You won’t use it. It will use you. I have read all the books, and I’ve 
gotten value; but that’s not transformational.
JAKE
I don’t know where you’re coming from with this asshole stuff . 
ERHARD
It’s not because you are one. I don’t call you an asshole because it’s an apt description. I call you 
that because it has an impact. If I wanted to call you the right name I’d call you Jake.
JAKE
I’m doing a good job as I listen to you, as we talk about keeping your word and things like that. I’m 
aware of the burden I infl ict on myself with trying to keep my word.
ERHARD
And you see, when you walk out of here, you will be free to be your word. There will be no
burden in your word. Not bad. It’s worth something isn’t it? But you haven’t the remotest clue
about how to get there. You couldn’t get there in a billion years. Now we need you to get there,
but you’re stuck in this area. So that’s my business.
(laughter)
If I need someone in your business to do something, I don’t come to me, because I’m an asshole
in your business. You aren’t going to know when this is working and when it’s not working.
You wouldn’t know if we were there if we fell over it, because you look for the wrong kind of 
evidence. Stop worrying about whether it’s working. That’s my job. I don’t mean to attack your 
sincerity. Your sincerity is not worth attacking, because it’s worthless.
JAKE
That almost sounded like an apology.
ERHARD  (looking out at the group)
Your sincerity is worthless because you’re still standing when you try to sit down. Now, I’ve got
to live with your standing, not with your trying. This is like a cult of assholes.
JAKE
It sounds like you’re condoning being a real sloppy person about your word. 
ERHARD
That’s what hooked you, isn’t it? 
way-of-being made available by the distinctions of Erhard’s work; 
that way-of-being is the ontological “place” we come from into the 
encounters of our lives. 
Two significant qualifications must be added here. First, we 
have generalized what has been produced by our participation 
in Erhard’s work as “a way of being.” This is of course a gloss on 
an existential phenomenon that defies capture by words. On the 
one hand we sense, in our recent experiences in the seminars of 
Landmark Worldwide, what we might call reverberations that are 
harmonic with our earliest experiences of Erhard’s work. At the 
same time, since each of us is the way of being whose evolution we 
are addressing, we obviously have no place to stand outside that 
evolution from which to address it.
Second, these years have included years when we have 
participated regularly and frequently in Erhard’s work, and years 
when we have not participated at all. Our assessment of this 
process is that our experience of life has been enhanced during 
those periods of participation. Certainly there have been ups 
and downs in every period; but the phenomenon that Erhard 
calls transformation does indeed live in language, and it is our 
experience that regular participation in the conversation keeps 
it alive. And for us, even in the nonparticipating periods, the 
development of the distinctions remains ongoing just in the 
process of life itself.
 Thus the purpose of The Forum is to communicate the 
distinctions repeatedly and at suff icient length such that 
participants can move, as far as possible, from getting them to 
dwelling in them. “Why we’re going on and on down there,” Erhard 
told The Forum leaders during a debriefing session, “is so that 
the distinctions are transferred from something people get to 
something they come from.”
Therefore, we request that readers consider this possibility in 
approaching the ideas in this book. If something we say seems, at 
one moment, to make sense, but upon further reflection doesn’t, 
that may be the way it should be assimilated.
For the senior author, the point which Erhard was making 
at this particular juncture of The Forum—that I present myself as 


=== END OF PAGE 60 ===

=== PAGE 61 ===

Forum Day One: Session Two
47
JAKE
Yep.
ERHARD
It sounded like I was attacking one of your sacred beliefs. You couldn’t tolerate being a guy who
said he would do it and didn’t do it. You couldn’t listen to the rest of what I said, and got con-
fused. You can’t live with being a guy who doesn’t keep his word.
JAKE 
I think I have good reasons for not doing it.
ERHARD
I didn’t say it wasn’t a valid story. I love everybody’s story. But you can’t ask about it, “true” or 
“false”? Is it really true that you couldn’t do it? What’s true is that you
t
didn’t do it. Sometimes a
t
cigar is just a cigar, as Freud said. Listen, you can’t be with that. You can’t be with the possibility 
of not being your word. And you know what? Something happened, when you were a kid, and 
you couldn’t be that anymore.
JAKE
This is something I value.
ERHARD
I know. You’re nutty about it.
JAKE
Yes I am a nut about it.
ERHARD
And anything you’re nutty about you have no freedom with.
JAKE
What’s the value in being two hours late just because you want to be two hours late?
ERHARD
I never said anything like that. You said that. You’re so nutty you’re hearing voices. That’s part 
metaphorical and part literal.
JAKE
No, somebody did say that.
MARY
I said that, but I didn’t say I wouldn’t try.
someone who keeps my word, whereas in reality I keep my word 
when I cannot justify not keeping it—wavers for me as I consider 
it. I see its validity: I do keep my promises and adhere to my 
agreements, but only until I see some overriding justification for 
breaking them. I obey most laws—my social contracts—except 
for certain laws which I justify not keeping: for example, I cannot 
personally justify cheating on my income tax returns, but I oft en 
justify exceeding the speed limit. The classic ethical dilemma—
whether one would tell an axe murderer the “truth” about the 
location of his innocent quarry—can be seen as a variation of this 
same point: I tell the truth until I can justify not telling it.
And yet I notice my resistance to accepting this when it is 
put so baldly. Protestations of my “honesty” leap to mind: it is 
not that I keep my word depending on how I feel about it, it is 
that I always keep my word except when there is some overriding 
reason not to. But—and here is the point Erhard is driving 
toward—isn’t that simply the same “what happened” with a 
diff erent “story” attached to it? Isn’t it true that I either keep my 
word or I don’t, and then I add a story, a justification of some 
nature for whichever action I take? Doesn’t the “what happened” 
remain unaltered, regardless of the explanation or justification I 
attach to the event?  ■


=== END OF PAGE 61 ===

=== PAGE 62 ===

48
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
You have no idea: she struggles with being on time.
MARY
Yeah.
ERHARD
So now it’s okay with him.
(laughter)
JAKE
I believe that people’s intentions are important. Let’s take a poll.
ERHARD
If we took a poll 100 years ago, somebody in here would be burned as a witch.
JAKE
That’s true.
Another participant, Paul, spoke up while remaining seated.
PAUL
In some languages making promises sometimes involves using a special tense that says you
might not arrive.
ERHARD  (laughing)
When I arrive, if I do...
PAUL
It’s characteristic of other languages. In Spanish there’s all these subjunctive tenses. You can
say: “When you do this for me, then I’ll do that.” It’s subjunctive, it’s something we don’t recog-
nize in our language. It’s recognized as theoretical. Maybe that’s what you’re getting at.
ERHARD
No it’s not, but what you’ve said is useful nevertheless for what I am getting at: that you will 
present yourself as a person who will do what you said you will do, and you don’t do what you 
say you will do. In fact maybe you will do it and maybe you won’t. That’s inauthentic.
PAUL
Well, I wouldn’t agree.


=== END OF PAGE 62 ===

=== PAGE 63 ===

Forum Day One: Session Two
49
ERHARD
Why don’t you stand up for a while?
PAUL  (standing and receiving a microphone)
To me being inauthentic is to say you’re going to do something without fully intending to do it. 
That’s inauthentic to me.
ERHARD
Try to keep in mind I’ve been discussing this for seventeen years with people almost as smart as
you are. And I’m still saying this thing. I haven’t met the person, although I haven’t met anyone
as smart as you...
PAUL
Nor have I met anybody as smart as you.
ERHARD
You don’t know that.
PAUL
I know I don’t, but neither do you know what you are saying.
ERHARD
Oh, you’re going to do your program with me, right?
PAUL
Oh no, I’m just...
ERHARD
Wait, wait. I don’t know a word for that except “asshole.”
(laughter)
If someone pays $625 to come in and take my course and they take the time to do their course 
with me for free, that’s an asshole.
PAUL
You’re playing with words.
ERHARD
What isn’t playing with words?
PAUL
Well anything nonverbal is obviously not playing with words.


=== END OF PAGE 63 ===

=== PAGE 64 ===

50
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
Really? Are you a linguist?
PAUL
Yeah, I speak three languages.
ERHARD
I didn’t ask if you speak three languages, I asked if you understood language. Is that your busi-
ness? Is language your business?
PAUL
No, but I speak several languages.
ERHARD
How many people in this room speak several languages?
(many hands raised)
I have a lot of respect for people who speak several languages. I don’t mean any disrespect, but
it doesn’t mean you know shit about language. 
PAUL
Well, language encompasses a pattern of thought, a process of thought. It’s contained within
the language you think within. Like I was referring to with Spanish, you have within the lan-
guage incorporated a structure for dealing with the fact that some things are hypothetical, some 
things are real...
ERHARD  (to the group)
You want to listen to this very carefully, because otherwise you’re going to stand up and do this. 
And I’m going to let him do this long enough that you can see what it looks like. Go on Paul.
PAUL
The point is, I agree, that to be inauthentic is to, you’re saying that it is to, to do something, to 
say you’re going to do something and, nobody knows, I could say I’m going to walk over here,
and the world may end before I get there.
ERHARD
That’s not my point. That’s not what I said.
PAUL
Well, what is the point?


=== END OF PAGE 64 ===

=== PAGE 65 ===

Forum Day One: Session Two
51
ERHARD
The point is, to present your self in one way and be another way is inauthentic.
PAUL
Yeah, that’s true.
ERHARD
That’s what I said from the beginning. It’s like I said one and one is two, and then you say,
“Well, not always...”
PAUL
But that doesn’t account for intention. There are some things within one person’s realm of con-
trol and other things that aren’t.
ERHARD
You’re nutty about this too. 
(pointing to Jake)
I want you to listen here. We’ll get this now. I don’t know if he’ll get it, but you’ll get it.
PAUL
I’m trying to clarify the distinction.
ERHARD
Hold on. I understand. See, look: I didn’t say anything about intention. You brought that up, 
actually it was Jake, but in this conversation, you brought that up. 
PAUL
Yes.
ERHARD
I said that “inauthentic” was to present yourself in one way, and be another way. That’s pretty 
goddamn simple, isn’t it?
PAUL
Sure, yeah.
ERHARD
And is that inauthentic?


=== END OF PAGE 65 ===

=== PAGE 66 ===

52
SPEAKING BEING
PAUL
Yes, if that is your way of being.
ERHARD
That is what I said. I said if you present yourself in one way, and you’re actually being another 
way, that’s inauthentic. Right?
PAUL
Sure, if you’re mindful of the fact that you’re that other way.
ERHARD
Well how about if the moon comes up blue with pink polka dots?
PAUL
Well...
ERHARD
How about if the world ends in 30 seconds? My question is: Why are you coming up with these 
little things about intentionality, when what I’m saying is very simple?
PAUL
Well, because it implies will. 
ERHARD
It doesn’t imply anything. If you present yourself one way, when in fact you are another way, 
that’s inauthentic. If it says gold stamped on a thing and it’s not gold, that’s inauthentic.
PAUL
No.
ERHARD
It’s when you present yourself one way, and you’re another way—that’s inauthentic.
PAUL
Well, I don’t agree, but still. I think that’s the wrong word.
ERHARD (to Jake)e
Do you get that he doesn’t agree with that?
JAKE
Can I respond to what you’re saying?


=== END OF PAGE 66 ===

=== PAGE 67 ===

Forum Day One: Session Two 
53
ERHARD
Did you get that he doesn’t agree with that?
JAKE
We’re not exactly aligned.
ERHARD
I understand that. Jake, you’re not exactly aligned from exactly the same place.
(addressing the two men)
You’re both nutty about your word. He’s coming from the same thing. If you thought it was gold
t
and you stamped gold on it, then it’s really gold. You hear how stupid that sounds?
JAKE
Yeah.
ERHARD
That’s what you said.
JAKE
I didn’t say that.
ERHARD (indicating Paul)
That’s what he said. Pretty stupid what he said, isn’t it? If you thought it was gold and you 
t
stamped gold on it, then it’s really gold. That’s what really counts, what you intended. Right?
JAKE
It doesn’t make it authentic, but it doesn’t make me dishonest. It doesn’t make me a liar either.
ERHARD  (to the group) 
I’m taking all this time with this bullshit because I want to accomplish something. No mat-
ter what I bring up, somebody will have a thing about it. Somebody will be nutty about it. No 
matter what they’re saying, it’s obvious these two guys are intelligent. But they’ve got their foot
nailed to the fl oor, so it’s like talking to stupid people. Being stuck makes you stupid. There’s no 
power available where you’ve got your foot nailed to the fl oor. All this conversation regarding
intention, in response to my simple statement about authenticity, indicates that there’s some 
nuttiness there. The point is, at some point, you will be that person.
(to Jake)
And to settle this conversation: I ask you to stand in—that a person who presents himself one 
way, and in fact acts another way, for any reason, is inauthentic. That’s not true. It’s a “take the
case that” I’m asking you to stand in. Is that clear?
“ 
There’s no power available where you’ve got
your foot nailed to the floor.


=== END OF PAGE 67 ===

=== PAGE 68 ===

54
SPEAKING BEING
Jake nodded and then sat down.
ERHARD (to Paul)
Did you get what I said to him?
PAUL
Yeah, so, what you’re saying is that specifi c instance you didn’t do what you said, you’re inau-
thentic, and I would agree with you there, but...
ERHARD
I don’t want your agreement. I want you to create this square.
 
(drawing an imaginary square on the fl oor in front of Paul) 
Inside that square is a diff erent world. Inside that world, when you act one way and present
yourself another way, that’s inauthentic.
PAUL
Specifi cally, or generally?
ERHARD
Generally. Just in that world. It’s not true in the rest of the world. Can you handle that?
PAUL
Yeah. I’m not sure what it applies to, but...
ERHARD
It doesn’t apply to anything. Can you handle that?
PAUL
Yeah.
ERHARD
Stand in that square and listen to what I say next. Because only standing there will what I’m
about to say make any sense. All right? You ready to stand in that square?
(to Paul)
You ready? So in that little square, I know it’s not true, and it’s not that way in the rest of the
world, and for those for whom one and one is two, when you pretend to be one way and act
another, that’s called inauthentic. When you own up to this, that’s being authentic about your 
inauthenticity. Anybody not get that? That’s the beginning of authenticity. Authenticity does not 
AUTHENTICITY
Here Erhard provides a counterintuitive, but very Heideggerian 
premise: authenticity is possible only with the development 
of an authentic relationship with our own inauthenticity. Here 
authenticity is an act of ownership, of owning the calculative 
clearing which we are, of accepting the particular gift  of Being 
whose sending characterizes our epoch. Heidegger introduced 
this idea in Being and Time, where he employed the term 
“resoluteness” to characterize Dasein’s state of having-
appropriated; he described this resoluteness as an empowering 
authenticity toward one’s own inauthenticity: 
Resoluteness appropriates untruth authen-
tically. Dasein is already in irresoluteness, 
and soon, perhaps, will be in it again. . . . The 
irresoluteness of the “they” remains domi-
nant, notwithstanding, but it cannot impugn 
resolute existence. (BT 345)
“
This idea lies at the heart of the appropriative event: in 
the context of having appropriated one’s inauthenticity, that 
inauthenticity, which persists, is nevertheless transformed. 
It is an idea which defies our usual thinking: ontically, such a 
“transformation” can only be seen as blatant self-justification, a 
philosophically sophisticated rationalization for accepting one’s 
worst nature. Ontologically, however, appropriation justifies 
nothing. Appropriation appropriates; it gives Being. Resoluteness, 
then, is “the opening up of human being, out of its captivity in 
that which is, to the openness of Being” (“OWA” in PLT 67). Much 
of The Forum is devoted to developing the possibility of a non-
justificatory event of appropriation. ■


=== END OF PAGE 68 ===

=== PAGE 69 ===

Forum Day One: Session Two
55
begin with being authentic. Authenticity begins with being authentic about your inauthenticity. 
If you’re ever going to have any degree of authenticity the only way to get there is to start with
being authentic about your inauthenticity.
(to the group)
I’m not interested in your belief systems, I’m not interested in your values, I’m not interested in
your principles. So no more conversations like I just had with Jake and Paul. I don’t mean don’t
say anything, I mean don’t preach. I’ll do all the preaching in here, and if I’m any good, I won’t
do any either. All I’m asking when I talk to you about the things I’m talking about is: build
a square, stand inside of it, look out at life and the world and see what you can see standing
in that square and standing in that possibility. If it empowers you to stand there, keep it. If it
doesn’t empower you to stand there, destroy it. Simple.
BELLA
You said to someone else that something happened when they were a child. I remembered. My 
father was a liar, and I decided I could never be that. I had to be honest. I’ve had no freedom to 
keep my word.
ERHARD
You can’t be anything you’re forced to be. Anything you are forced to be, you aren’t.
BELLA
I couldn’t stand the feeling.
ERHARD
Yeah.
(to the group)
Who couldn’t stand being a liar?
(several raise their hands)
You think a truth teller would fi nd lying absolutely abhorrent? For the person who tells the
truth you don’t have any problem with a lie, it’s only somebody down in the swamp, in the bot-
tom of the Valley of the Shadow of Death, who is afraid they might be a liar. I know you know 
better.
BELLA
I am a liar.
ERHARD
Yeah. You are a liar. That’s being authentic about being inauthentic. And that’s the beginning of 
authenticity—and the beginning of the freedom to tell the truth.
“ 
All I’m asking when I talk to you about the 
things I’m talking about is: build a square,
stand inside of it, look out at life and the 
world and see what you can see standing in
that square and standing in that possibility.


=== END OF PAGE 69 ===

=== PAGE 70 ===

56
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD (to the group)
I know most of you don’t get that, but never mind. Just listen. What today and tomorrow is
about mostly is about being authentic about being inauthentic. So there are a couple of things
to get. One: you present yourself as someone who keeps your word, but in fact you are someone
who does or does not keep your word depending on whether you feel like it. Is that the truth
about you? I told you I don’t know the truth. See if it’s empowering—like trying on a robe. 
Two: when you can wear that robe, that’s called being authentic about your own inauthenticity.
Always, the beginning of authenticity is being authentic about your own inauthenticity. I want 
you to treat the promises in here diff erently from usual. I want you to say “regardless.” When it’s 
all over, maybe you will, maybe you won’t. Sincerity is pure story. I’m asking you to engage in 
these promises as a matter of integrity, not sincerity. As a matter of fact, standing in the back-
ground is always the possibility that you may not. But then you won’t, and that’s that.
At 3:12 pm, The Forum adjourned for a second break.


=== END OF PAGE 70 ===

=== PAGE 71 ===



=== END OF PAGE 71 ===

=== PAGE 72 ===

58
SPEAKING BEING
Dasein: Meaning and Mineness
Dasein is Martin Heidegger’s name for the central figure in his 1927 magnum opus, 
Being and Time. The term is one of the few in Heidegger’s writing that consistently 
remains untranslated from the German: the most literal translation of Da-Sein is be-
ing-there. Scholar Hubert Dreyfus suggests that the best way to understand Dasein 
is to think of “our term ‘human being,’ which can refer to a way of being that is char-
acteristic of all people or to a specific person—a human being” (Hubert L. Dreyfus, 
Being-in-the-World 14). 
But the term being-there itself indicates the essential characteristic that distin-
guishes humans from other beings. Dasein is being-there because it is the only being 
for whom its Being is an issue. Humans are the beings who reflect upon themselves, 
and the only ones who exist in a world of meaning. We dwell in a meaningful “there,” 
and we bring our “there” along with us when we show up. Other beings inhabit the 
earth; human beings live in a world. 
This is a challenging and essential aspect of the thinking Heidegger is devel-
oping here, and a distinction that emerges persistently over the four days of The 
Forum. The meanings of the things in our world are not properties of the things 
themselves. Non-human beings are “entities whose kind of Being is of a charac-
ter other than Dasein’s,” and therefore they must be understood as “unmeaning, 
essentially devoid of any meaning at all” (BT 193). When Heidegger says that “only 
Dasein can be meaningful or meaningless,” he is saying that other beings can have or 
lack meaning only when they are encountered by Dasein and are thereby disclosed as 
meaningful or not (BT 192–193). Consider: a dog may not be “a dog” for another dog, 
nor may the dog see “beauty” in a sunset. Dasein is the only being in whose world 
there is meaning. Only for human beings do things show up as the things they are.
Further, Dasein is the only being for whom existence is always an issue, and the 
issue for each Dasein is always fundamentally its own existence. Heidegger calls this 
human characteristic mineness: the Being of human beings, while it characterizes 
the ontological nature of the collective, always occurs as the Being of a particular 
human being. Therefore, while Dasein is not a person, we have to talk about it as if 
it were: “Because Dasein has in each case mineness, one must always use a personal 
pronoun when one addresses it: ‘I am,’ ‘you are’” (BT 68). 
Each Dasein relates to this existential situation in a particular way. “Mineness 
belongs to any existent Dasein, and belongs to it as the condition which makes 
authenticity and inauthenticity possible” (BT 78, emphasis added). That is, my 
SESSION TWO INTERVAL
Dasein is always mine, but whether or not that relationship is authentic—as Werner 
Erhard would put it, whether I own the condition of mineness, or whether it owns 
me—depends upon an act of existential choice. The purpose of The Forum is to 
bring participants face-to-face with that choice, thereby making available the possi-
bility of authentic existence. 


=== END OF PAGE 72 ===

=== PAGE 73 ===



=== END OF PAGE 73 ===

=== PAGE 74 ===

60
SPEAKING BEING
The Forum resumed at 4:00 pm. Erhard was not present for this session. During 
the first half-hour, The Forum Supervisor, Julie, oversaw a procedure that took 
place in every Forum (but is currently not practiced in The Landmark Forum): 
participants raised their hands, section by section, to request rides or places to stay 
during the four days of The Forum, and other participants responded with offers. 
This process having been completed, Kipp came onto the platform. He introduced 
himself and Wes as the two Forum leaders who would be leading The Forum with 
Erhard, and then turned to the next order of business: the promises and requests 
of The Forum, which Erhard had mentioned earlier in the day. Julie, the Course 
Supervisor, came forward. 
JULIE
We’re asking you to give your word—to make certain promises—and to keep 
your word—to keep the promises.
The required promises:
(1) Regarding speaking in The Forum: Raise your hand, speak into the micro-
phone. Don’t talk to each other during The Forum.
(2) Wear your name tag at all times. Get the name on the tag correct.
(3) Take no notes. No tape recorders or cameras, no busy work at your chair, 
no food/drink in the room. Exception: Forum leaders may take notes.
(4) You agree to maintain the confidentiality of The Forum. This includes 
names of participants and their remarks. Keep in mind that confidentiality in 
a group of this size cannot be guaranteed.
(5) Regarding videotaping: if you didn’t earlier sign a video release, sit in the 
no-video section.
(6) No resale agreement. All materials in this program are the property of 
Werner Erhard and Associates, in some instances protected by copyright. 
You agree not to resell, modify, package, and deliver in a seminar, training 
program, workshop, consulting, or similar business activity. This protection 
extends beyond the copyright law.
(7) Informed consent. The Forum is not therapeutic in design or intent. Forum 
leaders are not trained mental health professionals. A series of questions was 
included about participant’s status with regard to therapy. If you’re in therapy 
and winning, advise your therapist. If not, or if you’ve been hospitalized for 
drug or alcohol abuse, we recommend you don’t take The Forum. In the form 
you signed earlier there is a list of emotions which may come up during The 
Forum; if you find them threatening, don’t take the Forum. If you have a prob-
lem dealing with stress, don’t take The Forum. Certain medical conditions and 
certain drugs are also listed in this category. This informed consent is intended 
to have legal significance.
FORUM DAY ONE: SESSION THREE
KIPP
Are there any questions regarding the ground rules?
PARTICIPANT
What are the reasons for the rules?
KIPP
Everything that we design is not meant to suppress you. It’s meant to provide 
maximum possible benefit for you from The Forum. 
PARTICIPANT
I’d like to know why we’re spending so much time on logistics. I’m angry.
(applause from some of the group)
KIPP
So you have no question? Thanks.
Following the required rules, an opportunity to leave was announced. No one did. 
KIPP
Your sitting in your chair is a promise, and we will relate to you on the basis 
that you have given your word. 
JULIE  (continuing to read the recommended promises)
(1) Be present for all sessions. We recommend that you be on time in the 
morning and back from breaks. If you miss any part of any Forum session, you 
forfeit the right to expect the results of The Forum.
(2) Do not consume drugs and medications—including alcohol, aspirin, mar-
ijuana, but not including those prescribed by your doctor—before the end of 
the fourth day of The Forum.
(3) Stay awake during The Forum. Staying awake is easier if you don’t slouch 
or slump in your chair. If you get sleepy, we recommend that you sit straight 
in the chair with your eyes open.
KIPP
A distinction has started to open up in the room: I’ll try vs. I’ll keep my promis-
es. This distinction was not merely about words. We’re not asking you to speak 
a certain way. We’re showing you a distinction of an empowering way to be 
with promises.


=== END OF PAGE 74 ===

=== PAGE 75 ===

Forum Day One: Session Three 61
way, a way you’re going to have to invent rather than discover. Namely, what 
you’re willing to put at stake. You can’t ever find something at stake. You can 
only invent it, create it. It’s a creative act, it’s a self-generated challenge which 
you create for yourself. And that’s who you are for The Forum. Some of the 
tools you need for this we haven’t developed in here yet. The first place you 
will look is at what’s wrong with you. Let that be. This is confusing because 
it requires real thinking. Your reasons got you here but they are no longer 
sufficient. During the meal break, I invite you to create what you’re willing to 
put at stake.
(pausing)
This works. We’re not wondering anymore whether The Forum works. We’re 
promising you that you can have anything you are willing to stand for having 
gotten in The Forum. And the access to that is your willingness to put yourself 
at stake here in The Forum. This requires speaking. You speak yourself in the 
matter. The first action which it requires is speaking, speaking what you’re 
putting at stake. And the second part is to promise to be your word. Have a 
conversation with others at dinner about this: if your life were an expression, 
what would that expression be? The Forum won’t provide you with what’s 
possible out of a reason for being here. At-stakeness is something that exists 
the moment you create it as a possibility. What we’re asking you to do is to 
begin to create your life. What you’re willing to stand for in here is what you 
have at stake. 
PARTICIPANT
What’s the difference between The Forum and positive thinking? 
KIPP 
Remember that “stop thinking” exercise we mentioned earlier? Try to make 
all those thoughts positive. It’s a difficult thing to do, trying to make some-
thing you have nothing to do with positive. Like, “Oh my God! There’s a bad 
thought! It’s supposed to be positive!”
(to the group)
During the meal break, you are to create what you are willing to put at stake 
like a possibility. Have a conversation with another person and with who you 
are going to have dinner with.
Following this discussion, Julie came onto the platform and announced a meal 
break at 6:20 pm.
JULIE  (continuing to read the suggested promises)
(1) Eat only during the one announced meal break. Eat a big breakfast.
(2) Don’t sit next to someone you knew before The Forum started.
(3) Advise us of the phone number where you’re staying this week. 
Assistants distributed phone information cards.
PARTICIPANT
Is gum chewing forbidden in The Forum? 
KIPP 
How many drops of pee does it take to spoil the stew? 
PARTICIPANT 
One.
KIPP 
Get it? 
PARTICIPANT
I know I should say yes. I know the group is the stew. Am I the pee?
KIPP
You’re at a moment of choice now.
(to the group)
What are some reasons for being in The Forum? 
PARTICIPANTS (several calling out)
So my speaking is a possibility for people; Because I know there’s more out 
there; etc. 
KIPP 
Now let’s hear some things you could fix from being in The Forum. 
Again, people called out answers, a series of standard benefi ts similar in quality to 
the fi rst group of responses. 
KIPP 
Neither of these provide you with what work The Forum has for you. A reason 
for being here, or something to fix, won’t provide you with what you need 
to be in The Forum. So we’re going to have to think of being here in a new 


=== END OF PAGE 75 ===

=== PAGE 76 ===

62
SPEAKING BEING
Yankelovich Study Results  
Prior to the delivery of The Forum presented in this book, Werner Erhard and Asso-
ciates (WE&A) commissioned a study by noted social scientist Daniel Yankelovich, 
SESSION THREE INTERVAL
wherein he analyzed the results reported by graduates of the course. By the time 
the results of the study were published, circa 1991, Erhard had sold WE&A to his em-
ployees, and that company today is called Landmark. Here is the summary of those 
results and Yankelovich’s analysis.
An Analysis of The Forum and Its Benefi ts 
A Yankelovich (DYG, Inc.) Study
Summary
Internationally recognized social scientist Daniel Yankelovich surveyed more than 1300 people who completed The
Forum during a three-month period. Prior to their course, people were asked what they expected to achieve in the 
course; after their course, they were asked about the benefits they actually received.
The study explored four areas: the value of The Forum, the profile of participants, satisfaction levels after The Forum, 
and unexpected benefits that were experienced. A few of the findings include:
 
•  More than 90% of participants report practical and enduring value for their life — well worth the time and 
cost.
 
•  More than 90% of participants report a better understanding of relationships and their role in them.
 
•  Nearly every participant received unexpected benefits — ranging from achieving personal and 
professional goals.
“Several of the study’s findings surprised me quite a bit, especially the large number of participants for whom The
Forum proved to be ‘one of the most valued experiences of my life.’ This is not a sentiment that people, particularly
successful, well-educated people, express lightly. I can understand why people recommend The Forum to their 
associates, friends, and relatives.”
Daniel Yankelovich, Chairman 
DYG, Inc. (public opinion analyst)
Daniel Yankelovich, Chairman of DYG, Inc., a noted social scientist and public opinion analyst, as well as a leading
researcher of values and future trends who has been conducting these kinds of studies for more than 30 years,
did an analysis of the survey.
The following charts indicate the value reported from The Forum, the benefits most often cited as a result of their
participation, and their level of satisfaction.
Daniel Yankelovich is a
leading interpreter of trends 
shaping American society
and the global economy. He 
is the author of 10 books
and chairman/founder of
three organizations: Public Agenda; DYG, Inc.; and 
Viewpoint Learning. His pioneering work has earned
him numerous awards in the field of public opinion
research.
“ More than 7 out of 10 found the 
course to be one of their life’s 
most rewarding experiences. 
To me, this suggests that it 
addresses many of people’s 
most profound concerns — 
to improve their personal 
relationships, how to be a more 
effective person, how to think 
productively about their lives 
and goals.”


=== END OF PAGE 76 ===

=== PAGE 77 ===

Forum Day One: Session 3 Interval 
63
Value of  The Forum
The degree of value to which participants
felt the course had in the areas listed below:
Satisfaction Levels
The degree to which The Forum fully
met the expectations of those attending 
for these reasons:
Unexpected Benefi ts
Nearly every participant in the Yankelovich survey reported
receiving some entirely unexpected benefits from The
Forum. These benefits ranged from specific educational to
business goals. Unexpected benefits were most frequently
noted in nine areas:
1. Greater confidence and self-esteem
2.  A new ability to express thoughts and feelings,
both publicly and privately
3. Job is more enjoyable and satisfying
4. Better relationships with co-workers
5. More comfortable and at ease with others
6.  Less concerned with the approval and opinion of others
7. Better relationship with parents and family members
8. Overcame a fear or anxiety
9. Have more fun in life
Profi le of Participants
These charts indicate the distribution of participants by age, educational level, and occupation. The greatest number of
participants are in their mid-twenties to mid-forties. On the whole, they are very well educated, with 87% indicating some
college work, well over half having completed college, and 20% holding postgraduate degrees. Participation is distributed
fairly evenly between women and men, and among married, single, and previously married adults.


=== END OF PAGE 77 ===

=== PAGE 78 ===

64
SPEAKING BEING
Areas of Greatest Impact
Before attending the workshop, we asked participants to indicate areas where they felt they needed improvement. Very
few people felt they needed a great deal of improvement in many of the 68 areas we questioned. Yet after the workshop,
many participants realized that they could improve themselves and their job performance dramatically in ways they hadn’t 
considered before the workshop. The ranking below shows the areas where the workshop had the greatest impact.
Being able to acknowledge mistakes fully and do what is necessary
to correct them.
Being fully committed to my company’s success.
Having high standards of quality for myself and the people who 
work with me and for me.
Confronting difficult situations head-on instead of avoiding them.
Always listening carefully and attentively to other people at work.
Being as concerned with the performance of my department/division
and the company overall as I am with my own performance.
Always being responsive to the concerns of those who work for me.
Being quick to give recognition to others for the work they do.
Welcoming constructive criticism from others.
Being very effective in communicating work related issues with 
my co-workers.
Being good at letting other people get all the credit they deserve.
Feeling free to be frank and open with those who report to me.
8%
84%
16%
75%
14%
69%
13%
67%
12%
62%
18%
70%
18%
69%
9%
62%
7%
58%
15%
75%
5%
66%
1%
76%
Pre-Workshop results represent the percentage of participants saying, “I feel this is an area that needs a great deal of improvement.” 
These percentages were obtained by combining the top 2 points of a 5-point scale.
Post-Workshop results represent the percentage of participants saying, “The workshop has made a dramatic and positive difference in
my intention to take action in this area.” These percentages were obtained by combining the top 2 points of a 5-point scale.


=== END OF PAGE 78 ===

=== PAGE 79 ===

Forum Day One: Session 3 Interval 
65
Top Benefi ts Received
After completing the workshop, we asked participants to assess its impact on 68 specific areas having to do with
responsibility, performance, communication, leadership, and job satisfaction. The ranking below reports the top
benefits received.
Being able to acknowledge my mistakes fully and do what is 
necessary to correct them.
Being fully committed to my company’s success.
Having a clear understanding of the vision, objectives, and
strategies of my company.
Being as fully productive as I am capable of being.
Confronting difficult situations head-on instead of avoiding them.
Always listening carefully and attentively to other people at work.
Endorsing the vision, objectives, and strategies of my company.
Always seeking out ways to improve my performance.
Endorsing the goals and priorities of my department/division.
Being confident in my ability to be innovative at work.
Welcoming constructive criticism from others.
Being as concerned with the performance of my department/division
and the company overall as I am with my own performance.
Being very effective in communicating work related issues
with my co-workers.
“The workshop has made a dramatic and positive difference in my intention to take action in this area”
These percentages were obtained by combining the top 2 points of a 5-point scale, where “1” represents “The workshop has made a
dramatic and positive difference in my intention to take action in this area” and “5” represents “The workshop has made no difference in my
intention to take action in this area.”
84%
76%
75%
75%
75%
75%
74%
71%
70%
70%
70%
69%
69%


=== END OF PAGE 79 ===

=== PAGE 80 ===

66
SPEAKING BEING
Top Benefi ts Received - By Category
Participants in the workshop reported receiving many benefits. Below is a ranking of the top benefits received in each
of the five categories: Responsibility, Performance, Communication, Leadership, and Satisfaction.
“The workshop has made a dramatic and positive difference in my intention to take action in this area”
These percentages were obtained by combining the top 2 points of a 5-point scale, where “1” represents “The workshop has made a 
dramatic and positive difference in my intention to take action in this area” and “5” represents “The workshop has made no difference in my 
intention to take action in this area.”
COMMUNICATION
Always listening carefully and attentively to other people at work.
Welcoming constructive criticism from others.
Being very effective in communicating work related  issues with my 
co-workers.
LEADERSHIP
Always being responsive to the concerns of those who work for me.
Developing excellent relationships with those with whom I work.
Being able to impart to others a larger purpose to the work we do.
SATISFACTION
Feeling that I am a valued part of the company.
Being very enthusiastic about taking on new projects.
RESPONSIBILITY
Being fully committed to my company’s success.
Having a clear understanding of the vision, objectives, and 
strategies of my company.
Endorsing the vision, objectives, and strategies of my company. 
PERFORMANCE
Being able to acknowledge my mistakes fully and do what is
necessary to correct them.
Being as fully productive as I am capable of being.
Confronting difficult situations head-on instead of avoiding them. 
76%
75%
75%
75%
75%
70%
69%
67%
65%
62%
59%
59%
74%
84%


=== END OF PAGE 80 ===

=== PAGE 81 ===



=== END OF PAGE 81 ===

=== PAGE 82 ===

68
SPEAKING BEING
7:50 pm: Erhard’s manner was light and casual as he opened this session, interrupted by a number 
of people who were returning late from the meal break. The first participant to stand shared that in 
looking for issues to put at stake, he found that his issues were already big enough and did not feel 
he needed to invent new ones. Erhard noticed an empty seat and began to manage people missing.
ERHARD
I made up my mind not to call you assholes any more, but I want you to know it’s very hard. 
Speaking about issues and what you can have at stake...
(drawing a large circle on the chalkboard) 
Let that circle represent everything there is to know. Everyone in The Forum is successful. We 
know from independent studies of The Forum that participants are above average in their abil-
ity to succeed. So a certain amount of what is in this circle you know, and you know that you 
know. 
(drawing a small wedge in the circle) 
What we do to be successful and able is we put what we know to use. That’s what common 
sense tells us to do with what we know that we know. But there is also some stuff that we don’t 
know, and know that we don’t know.
(adding a larger wedge) 
The older I’ve gotten, the more I know I don’t know. Common sense tells us that to find out 
what we know that we don’t know, we need to go to school, read a book, take a seminar. I’d 
like you to see that you really fit that. The rest of the pie is what you don’t know that you don’t 
know. What does common sense tell you to do about that? Nothing. Common sense is silent on 
that subject. What The Forum is about is what you don’t know that you don’t know—what’s 
behind you that you can’t see. The purpose of The Forum is to provide access to what you didn’t 
know that you didn’t know. In independent surveys, people have reported that The Forum is the 
single most dramatic learning experience in their life.
(drawing a point on the second chalkboard)
When you take a point, which has zero dimensions, and extend it into the first dimension, you 
get a line.
(drawing a line extending from the point)
You don’t get a bigger and better point. Then, when you extend the line into the second dimen-
sion, you don’t get a bigger and better line: you get a plane.
(drawing out from the line to form a square)
And when you extend a two-dimensional plane into the third dimension, you don’t get a bigger 
and better plane, you get a three dimensional figure, in this case, a cube.
(building from the square, Erhard drew a cube)
Almost invariably, the results of our life are results from extending ourselves on the same 
dimension. But adding a new dimension is an exponential leap. You want to listen up here and 
get this! The Forum doesn’t push out on the dimensions of living already available to you. What 
FORUM DAY ONE: 
SESSION FOUR


=== END OF PAGE 82 ===

=== PAGE 83 ===

Forum Day One: Session Four 
69
it does is add a dimension. So there’s an exponential leap in the possibility of Being. And that’s 
maybe why there are these outrageous claims people make about what they got from participat-
ing in The Forum.
PARTICIPANT
Couldn’t you add a fourth slice to the pie? Intuition? What you know but don’t know that you 
know.
ERHARD
Yes, that’s very legitimate. You didn’t get the point about dimensionality?
(adding it to the model on the board)
In a point, you have no degrees of freedom. In a line, one dimension, you get one degree of free-
dom, and so on, and we simply expand on that one degree of freedom. The Forum adds a new 
dimension. You get an exponential leap of possibility. 
PARTICIPANT
It’s what you don’t know that you don’t know.
ERHARD
Exactly. 
PARTICIPANT
How do you get there?
ERHARD
You’re in here four days and one evening. You’ll see how it’s done by the end of the third day. 
Anybody else here not get this dimensionality? 
PARTICIPANT
Could you say that what The Forum does is to “unconceal” a new dimension?
ERHARD
Yes, that’s a technical term for it. It’s called unconcealing. What begins to get you into this 
domain of “don’t know that you don’t know” is to dwell in the power of the question. We’re 
hungry for answers, addicted to answers. People hate being in the question; they want the 
answer. You don’t get answers. Light gets shed on what you are concerned with. That’s not the 
way you and I are usually. The way you and I are is hungry for answers. What do I do about it? 
The beginning of gaining access to what you don’t know that you don’t know, the beginning of 
establishing a new dimension for being, a new dimension for living, is to start to dwell in the 
question, develop the courage and the stamina and the wherewithal to orient yourself around 
“ 
Can you formulate a question, the asking 
of which is empowering? So that you’d be 
willing to stay in the question?


=== END OF PAGE 83 ===

=== PAGE 84 ===

70
SPEAKING BEING
questions the asking of which makes a difference. There are certain questions, just the asking of 
which impacts people’s ability in life. See, you and I don’t look for those questions, we look for 
answers, which you can only find in what you know that you don’t know. This is about devel-
oping questions the asking of which gives access to what you don’t know that you don’t know 
about your life, about other people, and about living. The Forum is about developing a certain 
muscle for asking questions the mere asking of which makes a difference.
Here Erhard read a passage from Heidegger’s On the Way to Language (page 13), in which Heidegger
recounts his dialogue with a Japanese scholar:
ERHARD (reading)
“Japanese: We Japanese do not think it strange if a dialogue leaves undefined what is really 
intended...”
(to the group)
That’s not very familiar to most of us, is it? In our dialogues we want to get definition very 
quickly. We want it explained.
(continuing to read)
“...or even restores it back to the keeping of the undefinable. 
Inquirer: That is part, I believe, of every dialogue that has turned out well between thinking be-
ings. As if of its own accord, it can take care that that undefinable something not only does not 
slip away, but displays its gathering force ever more luminously in the course of the dialogue.”
(to the group)
That means putting it back into “don’t know that you don’t know.” It’s a harmonic with what 
I read you earlier about the unspoken. See, what you’re looking for here is light, not answers. 
Insight you can’t create by the numbers. What you want if you’re going to create is light, not 
answers. Listen up, goddammit!
(continuing to read)
“Our dialogues with Count Kuki probably failed to turn out so well. We younger men chal-
lenged him much too directly to satisfy our thirst for handy information.”
(to the group)
You’re here listening for answers. You’re listening for what we call “tips.” Nothing worthwhile in life 
can be gotten there by ten steps. Or twenty steps. You can’t dance knowing where to put your feet.
(continuing to read)
“Inquirer: Thirst for knowledge and greed for explanations never lead to a thinking inquiry. 
Curiosity is always the concealed arrogance of a self-consciousness that banks on a self-invent-
ed ratio and its rationality.”
(to the group)
What that all means is that this greed, this thirst, the question, “How am I going to use this?”—
that’s a product, according to this guy, of a concealed arrogance, an arrogance that everything 
“ 
There are certain questions, just the asking of 
which impacts people’s ability in life.
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 84 ===

=== PAGE 85 ===

Forum Day One: Session Four 
71
in life that’s worth knowing is merely an extension of what I already know. But the truth is that 
everything worth knowing is going to violate what you know.
(continuing to read)
“The will to know does not will to abide in hope before what is worthy of thought.”
(to the group)
I think all there is, is having thoughts. But there are certain things that if you stand in front of 
them in a certain way, give you thinking. If you stand in front of things worthy of thought you 
get thinking. Thinking is a dance with that about which you are thinking. When you stand in 
front of questions worthy of thought, you get thinking. Now that’s tough, because we’re in the 
rainstorm called “I think.” We’re all Cartesians. No one’s had an original thought since then 
about thinking—at least not one that has gotten to you or me. You and I are still Cartesians. But 
there are possibilities beyond Descartes. And they give you access to a new way of being that 
you can’t get to—being the kind of person you already always are. We’re going to be thinking. 
That’s the way The Forum works. It goes backwards.
PARTICIPANT
What about disciplines that promise “inner transcendence”?
ERHARD
Inner transcendence. That’s what California is about. I don’t want to insult your pet project, 
but I am not a guy in a diner about getting someplace. And you aren’t going to get there leaping 
over being human. There’s no possibility of being beyond what you already always are until you 
own what you already always are. Californians don’t like that. Californians have this magical 
bullshit they believe in. That’s not the way The Forum works. The Forum’s got two pieces to it. 
The first is an inquiry into the already always being of human being. What kind of an opening 
are you for life? What’s the color of the clearing you are for life? To say that more rigorously: 
what is the already always condition of being for human beings? What did you get yourself 
into here? Not your individual version of being human. That’s the question of ninety percent of 
The Forum. That’s called going backwards. It’s about owning yourself as you already are. Being 
authentic about inauthenticity is particularly frightening for Californians. We don’t want to be 
inauthentic. Why? Because it looks bad. And I don’t like looking bad. And your life is about 
looking good. This is moving backwards to own what I already always am. This is not individ-
ualistic except that each of us has his or her own version, we got wet in this rainstorm called 
human being. What is it to be a human being? See, people don’t ask that question. They want to 
be thinner, younger, sexier. Those questions don’t give thinking. Because it is a question worthy 
of thought it creates the possibility of thinking.
The Forum is two questions. The first: what is the already always being of human beings? Being 
human owns you. It gives you your life. The second half of The Forum is another question. The 
second question is, what is the possibility of being for human beings? What’s possible beyond 
what I was given to be? I did what’s called in Zen the low road. In the low road you must do 
everything that doesn’t work. So I’m not a guy in a diner about the low road. Most people want 
“ 
There’s no possibility of being beyond what 
you already always are until you own what 
you already always are.


=== END OF PAGE 85 ===

=== PAGE 86 ===

72
SPEAKING BEING
to start with the second question. But you can’t get to the possibility until you own what you 
already always are. The pathway—concrete, authentic, real—is to embrace what you already 
always are.
(pausing)
The problem is that if you move forward from where you are, all you’re doing is changing. The 
medium in which you create may be something, but the source of creation is nothing. I had the 
privilege of having a relationship with Dick Feynman, the physicist. He took one note the whole 
time I knew him: “There are certain things you can only know by creating them.” As a matter 
of fact, when he died that note was on his blackboard. That was just my best moment.
(pausing)
When I use the term possibility, I mean stuff in the dimension of “don’t know that you don’t 
know.” So that’s what The Forum is about. In the first question, you move backwards. And it 
begins with being authentic about your own inauthenticity. To the degree that you’re not able 
to be with your own inauthenticity, to that degree you are unable to be. Where’s Jake? I want 
to identify the conversation we were having. He’s a fine guy. And yet, I’m saying that there’s 
something possible in that area he has a lot of interest that is denied to him because he can’t be 
“I don’t do what I said I would do.” I didn’t say that was true about him. That’s not important. 
What’s important is that he can’t be there yet. Whatever you’re not able to be with won’t let you 
be. So the degree to which you are not able to be with your inauthenticity, to that degree you 
are prevented from being. You’re stuck being this, so there’s nothing else you can be. Or you’re 
stuck not being that, so there’s nothing else you can be except not that. You’re like a Johnny 
one-note “not-that.” Not-that is way more attached than have-to-be-that.
I get this as a dance. I’m uncomfortable. I don’t know where to put my feet. It’s extremely un-
comfortable to be in that “don’t know that you don’t know.”
ERHARD
So “don’t know that you don’t know” is uncomfortable. Ever jumped out of an airplane? It’s 
uncomfortable. It’s also a lot of fun. 
PARTICIPANT
I’m starting to ask myself, “what is worthwhile?”
ERHARD
That’s a great question: A question to live with. If you live with that question for the rest of your 
life, your life will have a quality that it won’t have without it. You ask the question for the light 
the question gives.
“ 
To the degree that you’re not able to be with 
your own inauthenticity, to that degree you
are unable to be.
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 86 ===

=== PAGE 87 ===

Forum Day One: Session Four 
73
PARTICIPANT
That’s just life.
ERHARD
It’s life in the fast lane. “The more things change the more they remain the same.” That’s true. 
And we’ll look at why that’s so.
PARTICIPANT
There’s fun in engaging with this even though I don’t know what I’m doing. 
ERHARD
I don’t know what I’m doing. Would you want to dance knowing what you’re doing? But in 
our culture, you’re not allowed not to know. It’s shameful not to know. It’s the way we already 
always are. There’s an opportunity to develop a certain relationship with not knowing in here 
that will give you a more powerful access to what is worth knowing. With me? Thanks.
(pausing)
I’m not going to call on anybody for a while. We’re going to introduce a new what-you-call 
subject. We’re going to introduce a new what-I-call distinction. When this is all over, you’ll call 
it that too. The distinction is concern. The usual meaning of concern is “worried about.” When I 
use the word concern I use it in a broader sense. You and I are constituted by a body of con-
cerns, kind of like what we attend to. 
Erhard drew an X on the chalkboard.
ERHARD  (continuing)
X is a symbol that represents one of your concerns. X could be “being related.”
(responding to a participant asking for clarifi cation)
It could be said that human beings are constituted by a body of concerns. The word constitutive 
means something more than “is a part of.” It means something like “gives the thing itself.” It’s 
like your concerns give you your self. 
PARTICIPANT
It gives the essence of my self...
ERHARD
You’ve got to watch because I’m going to say “no” to damn near everything you’re going to say, 
and everything you say is good, but it’s not quite it. We’re not going to get this nailed down and 
I’ll show you why in just a second. You’re in the right ballpark. You’re fine.
(pausing)
So X represents one of your concerns. Let’s just say this represents the concern for being related. 
Everybody’s got this concern. A hermit expresses this concern by saying “I’m not related.” 
CONCERN
In introducing the distinction concern, Erhard is articulating 
another hint at the realm of Being the Forum is designed to evoke. 
As with his earlier conversation about moods, he is relocating the 
source of participants’ problems from their own agency to the 
contextualizing background. 
In Being and Time, Heidegger makes a similar move when 
he says that “Being-in-the-world has always dispersed itself or 
even split itself up into definite ways of Being-in.” To develop 
this point, he provides a list of examples, such as having to do 
with something, producing something, attending to something, 
undertaking, and considering. “All these ways of Being-in,” he says 
“have concern as their kind of Being” (BT 83).
Heidegger also distinguishes a category that he calls deficient 
modes of concern, in which “the possibilities of concern are kept 
to a ‘bare minimum’” (BT 83). Deficient modes include leaving 
undone, neglecting, renouncing, and taking a rest.
In everyday use, the word “concern” can have several 
meanings. The most common in our current usage is 
apprehension, as in “I am concerned for the success of our 
project.” But Heidegger and Erhard have used the term in another 
way, as a term for an existential characteristic of human beings, “a 
possible way of Being-in-the-world.” 
Just as human beings are never not in-the-world, they are 
likewise never not concerned, since they are concern essentially. 
Consider: you cannot locate yourself outside of your concerns, 
since the very attempt to do so is itself a manifestation of concern. 
Like lightning, which exists only in flashing, a human being exists 
always and only as a body of concerns.
With this distinction, both Heidegger and Erhard are 
undermining our everyday understanding of the meanings in 
our world. In so doing, they are preparing the way for the final 
transformational leap, the evocation of the Nothing. ■


=== END OF PAGE 87 ===

=== PAGE 88 ===

74
SPEAKING BEING
You’ve got a concern for being related otherwise why would you be concerned about not being 
related? Clear? 
(pausing)
What is our access to what concerns us? Our access to what concerns us is to get at what con-
cerns us in its aftermath. After the thing happens, in hindsight, we can understand. You can’t 
even see it before it happens, can you? The already always access that human beings have to 
their concerns, the access you inherited, is something like this...
To the right of the X Erhard listed description, defi nition, and explanation.
ERHARD (continuing)
...All of which, will lead to understanding.
(adding “understanding” to the list)
And out of understanding you derive prescriptions, which gives you guidance for how to deal 
with what concerns you: ten steps to... Now, you haven’t articulated all your prescriptions, have 
you? Because a lot of your prescriptions are contained in the way you are. They’re set in you. 
You want to get this! This is one of those things you have to get. This conversation’s got to be 
there for the whole Forum.
(pausing)
So you’ve got, for example, golden rules about relations, such as “keep them happy,” “do some-
thing so they’re attached to you,” et cetera. You and I have got great prescriptions. And what 
you can predict out of that is that you and I will get better and better at that. A rat can learn 
how to negotiate a maze by finding a piece of cheese, but will choose a new tunnel if the cheese 
is moved. The difference between a human being and a rat is as follows: a human being will go 
down the tunnel with no cheese forever. You know, you’ve been doing the same shit year after 
year after year, hoping for a different outcome. What you care about is being in the right tunnel, 
regardless of whether there’s cheese or not. Doing the same thing over and over again expecting 
different results. That’s the definition of insanity.
(turning to the chalkboard and indicating the empty space to the left of the X) 
Nobody looks over here, before it happens. 
(writing the word “source”)
That’s where it’s generated, that’s where it’s created. You want to listen up to this next part. Wake 
up! Wake up! When you get to the source of something you are no longer limited by it. That, by 
the way, is a part of how this works: by getting to the source of things. 
(to Wes and Kipp)
I promise that tomorrow I will give them one answer—the answer to what those guys on moun-
taintops in Tibet are looking for.
(pausing)
We’re going to get at concerns from the source side. You don’t get description, definition, 
explanation, and prescription—you just get power. You don’t get a PhD out of here. Plato and 
Socrates killed that kind of research anyway. They tried it and found out it didn’t work. You read 
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 88 ===

=== PAGE 89 ===

Forum Day One: Session Four 
75
Lee Iacocca and Al Newheart’s books? They would give everything they’ve got if they could give 
what they’ve got to you. Why can’t they? 
(pointing to the right of the X on the chalkboard)
Because they write the book in this language, the language of description, definition, and expla-
nation. Because people don’t buy books they can’t understand. That’s why we took your money 
before you got in here. When I talk about power I’m talking about something like the freedom 
to be, not force, which is the negation of power. I saw a film of a Japanese Judo master, and 
never once saw that man stop to think. And I watched the film over and over. The guys he was 
fighting stopped to think and got thrown. He was acting out of being something. His opponents, 
on the other hand, were acting out of knowing the answers. You see, you can’t throw somebody 
unless they’re set some way. 
(moving away from the board)
We’re going to talk about another critical thing: the listening that you are. I know you’ve got 
questions and comments, and I know some of it didn’t go clunk for you yet. That’s all right. 
We’ll get there. I talk in a language designed and crafted to give access to what concerns you at 
its source. Now I want to talk about the already always listening that you are. What is the listen-
ing you already always are? For the moment, in this conversation, what you are is a listening. 
In the normal course of events, I talk to you like you’re an empty vessel. That isn’t the way it is. 
The vessel’s already full, up to the top. It only admits certain things and it expels other things. It 
changes certain things. You and I are an already always listening.
(pausing)
When I got this distinction already always listening—not a concept or an idea, but a distinction; 
I’m teasing you with that word and you’ll find out about it tomorrow—I began to look at what is 
my already always listening. It was very clear to me. The already always listening I was, was “I 
know.” I was even a bigger pain in the ass in those days, and a smartass to boot. The only thing I 
ever heard was what I already knew. You wake up a certain listening. Your job on this break will 
be to discover the listening which you already always are.
(pausing)
Who can see already what your listening is? 
PARTICIPANT
The already always listening which I am is that I understand you completely. 
ERHARD
Very good.
PARTICIPANT
I’m not good enough.
ERHARD
A lot of us share that one: “The listening I’m going to provide for you is ‘I’m not good enough.’” 
Already Always Listening
This is a core distinction of The Forum, a hint that works together 
with other distinctions (e.g., mood and concern) to relocate 
participants’ understanding of the source of meaning in their 
lives. It asks participants to consider that the way they hear (and 
see) events and people in their lives is a function of their listening, 
rather than being sourced by the people and events themselves. 
It would be possible, of course, to engage in a similar 
conversation using a more familiar psychological model. Such a 
conversation would assert that one’s perceptions are shaped by 
one’s attitudes. This way of framing things would be immediately 
accessible to anyone whose understanding has been shaped by 
th e Cartesian paradigm of an “internal” subject in an objectively 
meaningful world. 
But locating the source of meaning in one’s listening rather 
than in one’s mind situates the process in the world rather than 
“in the heads” of participants. This furthers the development of 
the Heideggerian model of human being as Being-in-the-world. 
Participants in Werner Erhard’s work are frequently coached 
to “stay out of your head,” and to “get present.” In Erhard’s 
vocabulary, “in your head” is equivalent to “in the past.” This is 
where the nature of one’s already always listening is determined: 
one makes decisions about people based on past events (“he’s 
untrustworthy,” “she’s controlling,” “they never listen to me”), and 
these decisions shape the way life occurs in the future. 
Erhard has used the analogy of yellow sunglasses, worn for an 
extended period of time: eventually, you forget that the sunglasses 


=== END OF PAGE 89 ===

=== PAGE 90 ===

76
SPEAKING BEING
PARTICIPANT
I’m going to figure out what you’re saying wrong.
ERHARD
There’s a lot of crap in school. I don’t want to put the school system down. I have a lot of 
respect for teachers. But one of the things you find out in school is that you’re either smart or 
dumb. However, there’s no such thing as dumb. I did some work in a school for the disabled. 
One student, Jesse, was considered “uneducable.” It was decided, however, that he was educa-
ble enough to be sent to a school to learn to wash cars. On the day I was there, I was told that 
Jesse had stuffed a teacher in a trash can. As a consequence, he got sent back to the home for 
disabled students, where he could sit around, be friendly, and play. Stupid is a way to survive in 
school. Stupid is an act, a racket.
PARTICIPANT
The already always listening that I am is “I don’t want to and you can’t make me.”
ERHARD
You want to get this. A lot of people listen through “life is hard.” A lot of people listen through 
“life is a burden.” My dentist told me about his experience as a Boy Scout. No matter what the 
scoutmaster had suggested—hiking, swimming, going home—the Scouts always had the same 
response: “OH NOOOOOO!” You are this listening. That’s the clearing you are in which life 
happens. 
PARTICIPANT
Mine is “How can I use this?” “How can I get better?”
ERHARD
Almost everybody’s like that: “How can I use this?” Almost all the power in the world can’t be 
used. People don’t use power. Power uses people.
PARTICIPANT
“What are you going to tell me new that I don’t already know?”
ERHARD
Great.
PARTICIPANT
My already always listening is “How can I help you? Do you like me now?”
ERHARD
Beautiful.
are the cause of the world’s yellowness. Like the sunglasses, one’s 
way of listening remains invisible because it is always and already 
determining one’s point of view, making the way a situation 
appears become the way things are. The aim of this inquiry is 
for participants to notice these already always ways of listening 
in as much specificity as possible. The Forum proposes that the 
fundamental elements of human listening are widely shared, even 
across cultures; Erhard asserts that there is a “culture of human 
being” that transcends national boundaries. All human beings, 
for example, listen for positive assessments of themselves, and 
for evidence that they are right in their beliefs about the world. 
But individuals develop specific variations, and in this part of The 
Forum dialogue participants are encouraged to discover their own. 
In this way, the dialogue continues to turn participants toward 
themselves in an intensely reflexive process. ■


=== END OF PAGE 90 ===

=== PAGE 91 ===

Forum Day One: Session Four 
77
PARTICIPANT
My already always listening is “I’m very clever and I’ll prove it to you.”
ERHARD
See, there are times when “I’m very clever and I’ll prove it to you” is a very workable listening. 
But if you’re already always “I’m very clever and I’ll prove it to you,” there are a lot of occasions 
that doesn’t match. 
PARTICIPANT
I have several of these. My listening is that “I’m not good enough.”
ERHARD
“I’m not good enough” almost always has got another listening, which is “I’m better than you 
are.” “I’m not good enough but I’m better than you are.” You want to listen up. These guys are 
being authentic about their own inauthenticity. These are not nice people. They are cold, calcu-
lating, conniving people. They are out to get you to like them. And it’s not them. They didn’t in-
vent that. And if this is the opening that I’m providing for the world to occur in, it’s not surpris-
ing how the world shows up. We have done some work facilitating meetings between American 
and Soviet representatives. We discovered that the already always listening of the Americans is 
“You can’t be trusted for your word; now let’s talk.” This made the results predictable.
PARTICIPANT
My always already listening is “I’m too smart and too quick, and I better not let anyone know 
that.”
ERHARD
It’s the “already always way of listening.” I keep losing why the order is important, but there’s 
some significance to the order. What is the already always listening that gives you being the way 
you are? Believe it or not, the way you are is given to you by your listening. 
PARTICIPANT
“You’re boring.”
ERHARD
We’re going to take a break. I want you to consider that the way you are is given to you by your 
listening. I’m inviting you to get down to the already always listening, you know, as deep as you 
can, however deep that happens to be. Clear?
The Forum adjourned for the final break of the day at 10 pm.


=== END OF PAGE 91 ===

=== PAGE 92 ===

Jargon
Erhard’s influence on the language of Western culture has been significant. His 
terminology, like Heidegger’s, has always been unusual and highly purposive, and 
many of these words and phrases made their way into the public sphere, some to 
lasting effect. But that language, in its casual use, began to lose its power. Heidegger 
detailed this process of devolution in Being and Time:
SESSION FOUR INTERVAL
I hardly use the word “transformation” at all any more. . . . because 
while it once was a word that people had to think about, struggle 
to grasp, work on, that’s just not true anymore. The word no longer 
wakes people up. Now, when you say “transformation,” the word 
puts them to sleep—like they know what it means—they stop 
thinking, looking, inquiring. 
Instead, he said, as his ontological inquiry has developed, “the notions keep getting 
said differently” (Simon, “Quarterbacks and Coaches: Tossing It Around with Werner 
Erhard,” Family Therapy Networker, March–April 1986, 30–39).
Heidegger addressed his own confrontation with this situation in his essay “A 
Dialogue on Language,” a transcript of his conversation with a Japanese scholar. At 
one point Heidegger (referred to in the transcript as the Inquirer) mentions two of 
the ideas that were central in his early work, hermeneutics and phenomenology. 
“
78
SPEAKING BEING
In the language which is spoken when one expresses oneself, there 
lies an average intelligibility; and in accordance with this intelligi-
bility the discourse which is communicated can be understood to a 
considerable extent, even if the hearer does not bring himself into 
such a kind of Being towards what the discourse is about as to have 
a primordial understanding of it. We do not so much understand 
the entities which are talked about; we already are listening only to 
what-is-said-in-the-talk as such. What is said in the talk gets under-
stood; but what the talk is about is understood only approximately 
and superficially. . . . Idle talk is the possibility of understanding 
everything without previously making the thing one’s own. . . . Thus, 
by its very nature, idle talk is a closing-off , since to go back to the 
ground of what is talked about is something which it leaves undone. 
(BT 212–213)
“
Erhard’s comments in a 1986 interview, discussing the evolution of his own 
language use, echo Heidegger’s account of the process by which terms lose their 
originative power. Many of the words he had used in his work, Erhard said, “even-
tually drifted into popular use.” They “lost the creative intention behind them and 
degenerated into a kind of jargon.” Outside their original context, as Heidegger put 
it, the terms no longer reached out into the “totality of involvements” in which their 
significance was grounded (BT 200). 
This was the fate of the term “transformation,” a central term to which Erhard 
had assigned “an extremely precise meaning.” Today, he said, “you hear it every-
where. You read about it in business journals. It’s ‘hot.’ So, to some degree, it’s lost 
its potency.” He continued:
[Japanese]: I am all the more puzzled that you have meanwhile 
dropped both words.
[Inquirer]: That was done, not—as is so oft en thought—in order to 
deny the significance of phenomenology, but in order to abandon 
my own path of thinking to namelessness.
[Japanese]: An eff ort with which you will hardly be successful. . . .
[Inquirer]: . . . since one cannot get by in public without rubrics. 
(“DL” in OWL 29)
“
What is essential in both Heidegger’s work and Erhard’s is what is unspoken and 
therefore essentially nameless. Much of Erhard’s work during the four decades of its 
evolution may be seen as the development of new rubrics (distinctions) to replace 
those that have devolved into jargon, such that what is said makes present what 
cannot be said in words. 


=== END OF PAGE 92 ===

=== PAGE 93 ===



=== END OF PAGE 93 ===

=== PAGE 94 ===

80
SPEAKING BEING
The Forum resumed at 10:30 pm. Erhard began by inviting questions from the
participants. One participant, reviewing The Forum, shared that his already always 
listening had altered as a result of that experience.  
ERHARD (addressing the group)
He’s got a possibility beyond his thrown listening. He got it by owning his 
thrown listening. There’s something called getting off  it. This is a sacred thing.
To get off  it is sacred. Now, what does getting off  it mean? It means he’s not 
constrained to entertain that listening. He can hear himself listening and get 
off  that listening. When his already always listening comes up, he is able to 
own it, to embrace it, to be responsible for it. In the normal course of events,
if I found out my already always listening was disempowering I would try to
stop it. He didn’t change it. That’s the big secret. Because when you change it, 
nothing changes.
(shifting tone)
This is a “you-gotta-get-this.” So listen up. 
At the chalkboard, Erhard placed the chalk on the surface and moved it, so that 
the chalk ended in a diff erent place but a line remained indicating the path of its 
movement.
ERHARD (continuing)
Change persists. When you’re diff erent, what persists? That which you’re dif-
ferent than. So when you’re diff erent you’re the same, because the thing from 
which you’re diff erent is still there. The more diff erence, the more persistence. 
If you’re really diff erent, the thing you’re diff erent than has a big persistence. 
If I’m a nice guy as a solution to a problem, the problem for which being a nice
guy is a solution stays in place. About ninety-nine percent of what you are,
you became as a solution to a problem. Education is a solution to being stupid. 
When you solve a problem, what persists is the problem.
(to the participant)
So your listening that altered hadn’t solved the problem of your already always 
listening.
(to the group)
He had embraced it. He was able to be with the problem.
(drawing two tangent circles on the board) 
Can you imagine putting two solid objects in the same place at the same time?
If you did that, what would happen? They would disappear. Push them into 
FORUM DAY ONE: SESSION FIVE
the same space—the space between them—and they will disappear. Anything 
you can let be will let you be. There are no accidents of being. You’ve got to be 
there for it, open for it, available for it.
DAVID
I wanted to recognize that I haven’t really been listening. 
ERHARD
Recognition is the beginning. When you recognize your own already always 
listening, you’re on the fi eld. The game’s not over, but you’re on the fi eld.
DAVID
What do I do with my realization?
ERHARD
Nothing. It’ll do something with you. It’ll give you something you didn’t have 
before. Most of you ought to be able to map what David said onto your own 
listening.
Here Erhard called Kipp to the platform to conduct the next exercise; Erhard 
remained nearby, interrupting occasionally to reinforce a point. 
KIPP (to the group) 
Your job is to sit in your chair, and when I say “now,” describe to yourself 
whatever’s happening right now. 
(pausing)
Now.
(a minute of silence)
Okay, plenty of data. Let’s have a few people report what they are experiencing
now.
PARTICIPANT
I’m bored and I don’t want to be here.
PARTICIPANT
I’m analyzing a lot.
ERHARD
It’s not you analyzing, it’s it analyzing, because you can’t stop it.
t
PARTICIPANT
What am I supposed to do now?


=== END OF PAGE 94 ===

=== PAGE 95 ===

Forum Day One: Session Five
81
PARTICIPANT
I noticed I was really exhausted.
KIPP
So what you just did was unconceal a fundamental condition that human
beings are. I asked you to sit in your chair and think about what’s happening
right now, and what did you do? By the time you get around to describing
what’s happening right now, it’s gone. Yet everybody stood up authentically, 
honestly, and described what happened then but said it was what is now.
There’s no description available for now. So you’ve got to have the representa-
tion. But what’s present is clearly distinct from the representation. And what it
is to be a human being is not to have that distinction. This is what happened at
the party before you got here. The domains of presence and representation got
collapsed. The moment you say what was happening is what is happening, the
representation starts to shape the presence.
ERHARD
What’s the diff erence between now and your representation of now? You 
can never describe presence because there’s no description in the realm of 
presence. If this isn’t making sense, don’t worry. The valuable stuff  in here
will not make sense. But it’s valid. “Make sense” means “fi ts with what you 
already know.” To get what doesn’t make sense requires thinking. What Kipp 
is trying to get you to get is that you don’t make any distinction between love
as a presence and love as a story. Is there anybody in the room who can’t see 
that existence as a presence is diff erent from existence as a concept or repre-
sentation?
(pausing)
Life exists in the world of concepts and life exists in the world of presence. 
But that’s misleading, because the two get collapsed. Something happens,
like a “what happened.” And that devolves into a concept. What happened
back then is never present like a presence. But that’s not clear to you. You
think you’re dealing with what happened when what you’re really dealing
with is your story about what happened. One is not better than the other. 
The problem is when they get mixed together. This creates a vicious circle: 
the concept of your previous experience now becomes a fi lter for your next 
experience, which is now a little less free because it is conceptually shaped. 
The conceptually shaped experience reinforces the concept; the reinforced 
concept more fully shapes the experience. I’m trying to drive out this seven-
ties bullshit that there’s something wrong with your head. I’m an anti-human 
potentialist. I’m not saying that you’re stuck in the concept. I’m saying that 
you’re stuck in the vicious circle. I don’t want questions. I want to know: 
“Did you get that?”
(pausing)
Good. Everybody got that. So now we’re going to demonstrate what happens 
when you’ve got that distinction. Once you get a distinction, it uses you. Three
distinctions to get: one is the realm of existence called presence. The second is 
the realm of existence called concept or representation. The third is the vicious 
circle. The vicious circle is constructed by a collapse of the fi rst two domains.
(pausing)
We’re going to play a new game. We’re going to do a survey. How many of you 
are tired? 
(a majority of participants raised their hands) 
How many of you have a headache? 
(calling on a young woman named Diane)
Would you be willing to participate in a demonstration? Then please come up
here onto the platform.
Diane sat in the second director’s chair that an assistant placed alongside the fi rst.
ERHARD
Would you be willing to have your headache disappear?
DIANE
Yes. 
ERHARD
And would you be willing to not know why it disappeared? 
DIANE
Okay.
ERHARD
Please close your eyes. How long have you had your headache? 
DIANE
Since before the dinner break.
ERHARD
How big is it?
(hesitating, she holds hands outstretched)
Where is it located? 
(pointing to her left temple)
What color is it?


=== END OF PAGE 95 ===

=== PAGE 96 ===

82
SPEAKING BEING
DIANE (hesitating)
Brown.
ERHARD
If it had a geometric shape, what would it be?
DIANE
Triangular.
ERHARD
How much water would it hold?
DIANE
About a pint.
ERHARD
On a scale of one to ten, where is it?
DIANE
Six and a half.
ERHARD
Why do you have it?
DIANE
Because it’s been a long day.
ERHARD
Headache and long day live in diff erent realms. You have collapsed them. So,
why do you have a headache?
DIANE
Because I’ve been sitting still.
ERHARD
So you’ve got two domains collapsed. Every time I ask you that stupid question 
“Why?” it collapses the two domains.
(repeating this series of questions several times)
How’s your headache now?
DIANE
It’s a four.
ERHARD
How much water would it hold? 
DIANE
Still a pint.
ERHARD
It’s critically important that you get it. The headache now and the headache
a moment ago are collapsed together. When she says the headache is “still” a 
pint, I know she has collapsed the headache now with the representation of 
the headache then.
(continuing to question her regarding the headache’s shape, color and location 
right now)
Do you have a headache?
DIANE
No, I don’t.
ERHARD (to the group)
What happened was, I asked her questions which in order to answer she had
to be in the presence of her headache like a presence.
DIANE
I focused on it.
ERHARD
No! What happened was you got the domains uncollapsed. All that happened
was that the headache, instead of showing up in the vicious circle, showed up
distinct in the domain of presence. You looked at your headache. You were
present to the headache. There are no reasons when the headache is like a
presence.
A second demonstration followed with Patricia, a participant who said she was 
tired. She sat in one of the director’s chairs; Erhard sat on the arm of his, facing 
her. 
ERHARD
How tired are you on a scale from one to ten?


=== END OF PAGE 96 ===

=== PAGE 97 ===

Forum Day One: Session Five 
83
PATRICIA
Three.
ERHARD
Good. We’re going to leave you at three.
(returning to her seat as the group applauded) 
For how many people in the room is something starting to move?
(many hands raising) 
For how many people in the room is nothing starting to move?
(more hands) 
How many people are at maybe, can’t tell? 
(still more hands) 
You know where you should be? Where you are?
(pausing)
I’m going to give you an assignment which will determine how much you get 
out of The Forum. I got your money. I can’t lose. You can lose. The point is: 
you have a chance to enhance what you get out of here. Bring your life in here
tomorrow. Don’t bring the face you brought today—the “I’ve got it all togeth-
er” face. Bring in the face that’s authentic about your own inauthenticity. 
What has it cost you in life to collapse those domains? What you’re bringing in 
tomorrow is your inauthenticity. 
(pausing)
We didn’t talk about looking good today, did we? We’re going to do it in 
thirty seconds. You have a major concern for looking good. For some people
looking bad is looking good. So when you come in tomorrow, be able to
talk about where in your life are you used by looking good. Looking good
owns your life. 
(pausing)
The four-day format of this Forum is both an asset and a liability. The 
liability is that there aren’t five days between the weekends for you to be 
back in your lives and talk about your experience. You have got to commu-
nicate what’s happening for you here. You have got to be articulate in this
conversation. Tonight you’ve got to talk about this to other people. You’ve
got to begin to be able to generate the conversation. You’ve got to be able to 
speak this. You don’t have to explain it. You want to be in communication
about this like an experience, like a presence. I know a lot of people who
understand this and don’t live it.
PARTICIPANT
It is very late and I am tired.
PATRICIA
A four. 
ERHARD
Do you know why you are tired? Notice I didn’t ask you “do you think you
k
know why?” I asked if you know why you’re tired.
PATRICIA
No. 
ERHARD
What’s the relationship between the reasons you have for being tired and 
being tired? There isn’t any. The reasons are valid. In other words, in the world
of reasons every reason you have is a valid reason. You don’t have any nutty 
reasons.
(turning to the group and speaking in a loud voice)
There’s no such thing as tired! That’s a concept!
(back to Patricia)
Where in your body are you experiencing what you used to call being tired? 
PATRICIA
My arms.
ERHARD
And where else in your body?
As Erhard repeated the question, she responded each time by identifying a tired 
area of her body.
ERHARD
Nothing much conceptual about this, is there? It’s all presence.
PATRICIA
My arms are still tired.
ERHARD
For a while there you were really looking. But then you got to thinking 
about it. Whenever you say “still” or “also”... See how easy it is to collapse 
the domains?
(continuing to question her)
You were at a four when you started this. Where are you now?


=== END OF PAGE 97 ===

=== PAGE 98 ===

84
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
Do you think I give a shit that you’re tired? We’re talking about the rest of your
life and you’re sitting there complaining about being tired. That’s disgusting. 
You are disgusting.
(pausing: to the group)
Now that I’ve got your attention. . . 
(repeating the assignments) 
Let me leave you with a reminder. I have already gotten everything I need out
of this Forum. You have not. You need to be twice as powerful tomorrow. The 
way to be twice as powerful is to do these assignments. You gave your word
to be here on time tomorrow. Is that clear? You gave your word to be on time
tomorrow regardless of the circumstances, is that clear?
(to a participant who was standing at the back of the room preparing to leave)
What are you doing at the door with your hat and coat on? You need to be 
back in The Forum so we can end The Forum.
The participant returned to her seat in palpable silence.
ERHARD
Thank you.
The fi rst day of The Forum ended.


=== END OF PAGE 98 ===

=== PAGE 99 ===



=== END OF PAGE 99 ===

=== PAGE 100 ===

86
SPEAKING BEING
the circumstances. There are also moments when we experience freedom from
self-awareness. The diff erence between these two states is relevant to our inquiry 
here. Where does the self live when it is not alive in our awareness?
This leads to the second point made here by Heidegger, one which is generally less 
apparent than the first: self-reflection is at the same time self-production: “The essential 
thing is ‘I will myself’” (EP 64). The human self is not like the human elbow: it is not a 
P
ready-made part of the package that accompanies an infant’s arrival in the world. What 
is included in the package, although not immediately functional, is language, which pro-
vides the material with which we are eventually able to produce a self. But in a world of 
beings with selves, questions about the nature and stability of the self arise persistently,
and recent advances in the study of the human brain, as well as child development, have
informed the inquiry but have not answered the questions. Therefore we note the point 
here as a question to be kept open as The Forum proceeds.
Regarding the phenomenon of reflexion, Heidegger says further that it is “Man’s
settling down in one of his essential places,” and he notes with emphasis that it is 
characterized by “certainty, certainty” (EP 60). That is, for the most part, human
P
beings are made both secure and comfortable by the condition that their self-knowl-
edge provides. While many of us spend considerable time tinkering with the details
of our identities in the interest of self-improvement, on the whole those identities
give us security. On the whole, we are at home in ourselves.
This, at least, is the way of things in the current paradigm. This interpretation 
of the self, however, while self-evident to most of us, is an artifact of a particular way 
t
of understanding human being. Indeed, it has been the dominant understanding for 
several centuries; and while it is increasingly questioned among people who think 
actively about these matters, such as philosophers and other scholars, it remains
the operative understanding for most people in the world—not as something they
bring to mind, or could articulate, but as a way of functioning in their everyday lives.
This particular way of understanding the world, and our place in it, is generally 
known as the Cartesian paradigm. It is so called in recognition of the man in whose 
thinking the model was crystallized, the seventeenth-century French philosopher 
and mathematician Rene Descartes. As a philosopher, Descartes’ job was to engage
in thought experiments; and in one of those experiments—which turned out to be 
significant for all of us—he decided that he would place everything in the world in 
doubt. His purpose in doing this was to discover what, if anything, was indubitable:
what in the world, in the face of committed skepticism, could retain a quality of 
absolute certainty?
END OF DAY ONE INTERVAL
Reflexion: The Cartesian Deficiency
At the outset of Being and Time, Martin Heidegger makes a point that might other-
wise be dismissed as obvious: any inquiry into the nature of Being—such as Werner 
Erhard’s project, or Heidegger’s own—must always be conducted by human beings,
who as far as we can tell are the only beings who have a concern for the matter, as
well as the only ones who are capable of inquiring. Humans are therefore involved
at multiple points in the inquiry—as the beings who are questioning, as the beings of 
whom the question is asked, and as the beings about whom the question is asked.
t
This point is important because of its implications for the inquiry: it will be char-
acterized throughout by reflexion. Reflexion, or self-referentiality, is an important 
idea in the work of both Heidegger and Erhard. The term designates a state in which 
we are turned toward our selves, as when confronting a reflection.
d
Reflexion requires, first of all, self-consciousness. To say that human beings are 
the only beings for whom their being is an issue, is to say that human beings are the 
only beings who are self-conscious—or, to say it more simply, we are the only beings
who have a self. While the consciousness of other animals is likely always to remain
a mystery at some level, it is generally agreed that dogs do not reflect upon their 
 existence. Here, Heidegger emphasizes the centrality of such reflection to human 
awareness:
Consciousness is self-consciousness, and self-consciousness 
is ego-consciousness or “we”-consciousness. The essential
thing in this is the re-flexive, and in it the “I,” “we,” “self,” 
the presentation-to-self and self-production. (EP 64)
P
“
Two points in this passage should be noted. The first, like many points that
arise in an ontological inquiry, can seem at first both apparent and trivial: one’s
consciousness always includes consciousness of one’s self. That is, in being aware
of my world, I am always at some level aware of my self as the center of my aware-
ness. It is worth taking a moment to notice this, because the nature of the self, and
the quality of its presence in human awareness, will become a central topic as The
Forum proceeds. Clearly, there are moments in life when one’s self-consciousness
becomes intensified, resulting in either pleasure or discomfort, depending upon 


=== END OF PAGE 100 ===

=== PAGE 101 ===

Forum Day One: End of Day One Interval 87
The outcome of this experiment led him to the formulation that has come
down to us as his most famous statement, one familiar to almost every university 
undergraduate although generally without a clear idea of its implications: I think,
therefore I am (or in Descartes’ original Latin, Cogito, ergo sum).
That is: if I doubt everything, the only thing of which I can be certain is that I
am the doubter. I can know nothing with certainty except myself, as the one who
is thinking. Further, since I am the only certainty, I am also the inevitable arbiter of 
what counts as real. In the Cartesian model of human being that emerged from this 
experiment—the model that today we inhabit unthinkingly—the cogito, the “I,” the 
being who thinks, is the grounding certainty at the center of things. It is the subject 
(Latin subjectum, what lies beneath), while out there, independent of the subject, is a 
world of objects (objectum, over against). For humans, Being-in-the-world demands
that we determine the true meanings of those objects. Heidegger scholar Michael E.
Zimmerman describes the situation this way:
Although Copernicus had only recently shattered man’s
illusions about being the center of the physical universe,
Descartes established man as the ontological center:
l
henceforth, the reality of the real was what man asserted it
to be. . . . “To be” meant to be conceived by and through the
subject. . . . Everything got determined and evaluated from
the standpoint of man. (“Beyond ‘Humanism’: Heidegger’s
Understanding of Technology” 222)
It is this paradigm, of the fixed and self-certain human subject, that both Heide-
gger and Erhard are placing in question through their work. As Heidegger points out,
Descartes arrived at his conclusion by accepting as given the nature of the sum—
Being, the “I am.” But Heidegger proposes that the nature of “I am” has never been 
fully worked out in the history of Western philosophy, so that behind Descartes’ con-
clusion “there lies hidden a failure to master the basic problem of Being” (BT 127). 
T
The Cartesian model itself was the result of an experiment in reflexive thinking.
The heart of the subject–object distinction is “I think something” (EP 62) a premise
P
that turns thinking back upon itself, toward the “I,” and thus toward “the presenta-
tion-to-self and self-production” (EP 64). Presentation demands production, since 
the “I” is not there to be reflected upon. In reflecting upon my self, I create my self.
“
But in the Cartesian model, the subject is self-certain—that is, certain of itself 
as an entity that persists. The clearing for creation has been occupied. Therefore
Heidegger proposes that self-consciousness, which has in Descartes’ model bent
back far enough to see its “I,” must now bend back further and confront the context
in which the “I” stands essentially, a context that puts its self’s certainty in question.
As we will show, the culminating event of The Forum—the unconcealment of 
 Being—is accomplished through the evocation of a profound bending-back, reveal-
ing not only the context of the “I,” but in a masterful moment of existential rug-pull-
ing, the context of that context as well. 


=== END OF PAGE 101 ===

=== PAGE 102 ===



=== END OF PAGE 102 ===

=== PAGE 103 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session One 
89
The day began at 9:00 am, with Julie, The Forum Supervisor, leading the participants through the
process of fi lling out the Graduate Records form. Before the forms were collected, she asked the 
participants to stop writing, and Kipp mounted the platform (T-shaped, with stairs at the end of the 
center runway) and led a conversation about the Six-Day Course.* Following this hour-long conversa-
tion, Wes replaced Kipp on the platform to invite participants to share what they encountered when 
doing the assignment given at the end of Day One.
WES
Good morning. We’re going to begin with sharing. Would someone repeat the three assignments 
Werner gave you last night?
MAC (a participant in a wheelchair)
You’re one of the leaders of this Forum. This program has been going on for seventeen years
with hundreds of thousands of people, which means you have had many hundreds of Forums.
To keep us here to one o’clock means for me that after doing my homework I wasn’t able to 
get to bed until a quarter till three. I request that you organize yourselves, as we must organize
ourselves, so that we can leave here by eleven instead of one o’clock.
WES
I got your suggestion.
MAC
But are you going to do anything about it?
WES
The Forum will probably end between eleven and one am.
SPEAKING 
BEING
DAY TWO
FORUM DAY TWO: 
SESSION ONE
* 
NOTE: The Six-Day Course originally was included as part of what was called the Ten-Day
Teen Training, first delivered in June 1973. In addition to the four-day est Training, six days 
were devoted to various physical challenges such as riding zip-lines and repelling cliff s. 
The Six-Day Course that Kipp discussed here at the beginning of Day Two of The Forum was
first delivered in March 1977 for adult graduates of the est Training, and continued to be de-
livered through the transition to The Forum in 1985, up until June 1991 when the last Six-Day
was held.
Some elements of the course were included (though significantly revised) in what became
the Landmark Advanced Course, first delivered in 1991. This course still (as of 2019) serves as the 
second of four parts of Landmark’s Curriculum for Living, the other two parts of which are 
The Landmark Forum in Action ten-session seminar series and The Landmark Self-Expression 
and Leadership Program. 


=== END OF PAGE 103 ===

=== PAGE 104 ===

90
SPEAKING BEING
MAC
So you’re not going to do anything about it.
WES
No, we’re not going to follow your suggestion.
MAC
Well at least I got it off  my chest.
WES
There’s something at stake here which is much more important than an hour or so of sleep.
MAC
For some of us, sleep is important to function.
WES
Yeah, yeah, it’ll get worse.
(laughter)
Who can repeat the assignments?
(some raising their hands)
Who cannot repeat them?
(others raising their hands)
Now, who can repeat the assignment and share about it?
SIENNA
Share your experience with someone in The Forum. Bring areas to work on, inauthenticities.
And look at areas of your life where looking good uses you.
WES
Look at the possibility that looking good has used your life. Which one do you want to share 
about?
SIENNA
I want to share about looking good, and the way I look good goes back to the already always
listening. I have a presence that is an act about knowing, about knowing it all.
WES
Without this distinction you are dealing with, we tend to put our knowledge and our informa-
tion in a box, and we don’t see that we use that box for something, we make the box itself right,
NOTE: See the beginning of Session Three of Day Four,
where Mac comes forward to share what he had gotten out
of the course.


=== END OF PAGE 104 ===

=== PAGE 105 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session One 
91
and we don’t see how we use the box to be right, which makes us very ineff ective, by the way.
Whatever power knowing has, whatever power information has, the power becomes displaced 
by the motivation behind the gathering of it.
SIENNA
What I do then is spend a lot of time judging whether they are acting as if they know, or acting
as if I know, even when I don’t know, which makes it very upsetting for me yesterday and this 
morning, that there’s a piece of me that knows that what’s critical for me, you know Werner 
said to focus on where you were upset or confused. And I’m attracted to that area in the circle
that I don’t know that I don’t know. And when I’m in my act of having to know, it is so critical 
to my success that I’m willing to say that I know when I don’t. And then I miss the opportunity 
to create solutions when I’m in my act “I already know.”
WES
Brilliant. She’s creating “creativity,” and she knows she can’t step into that domain, because the
very thing that keeps her from stepping into that domain is this thing, that she’s “got to know.”
t
But if you’re going to create something, you can’t know what you’re going to create. That’s
the area of creativity: you can’t step into it unless you’re willing to give up what you previ-
ously knew. This is a major issue people have a breakthrough with in the creativity seminar.
(to Sienna)
That’s great.
SIENNA
There’s another thing about the act and inauthenticity, which I have become very sophisticated 
in. I decided at some point about people who are assholes, who stand up and challenge author-
ity, and I decided all that stuff  was inappropriate. And yet one of my inauthenticities is that I
walk around knowing that I know a lot more than anyone else. But if I said that, that would
mean being an asshole: and so I’ve cloaked it. But it’s worse because it’s indirect. And then I
walk around worried that people will fi nd out what I don’t want them to fi nd out about me. It’s
silly because it’s probably written all over me.
WES
They won’t acknowledge it because the unspoken agreement with your friends is that you won’t 
call them on their inauthenticity and they won’t call you on yours. That’s what it means to have
a friend. You’ll let that slip by. The other agreement is that your friends are willing to listen to 
your racket. Today you’ll fi nd out about your racket.
(to the group)
She is sharing an aspect of her racket. It’s a technical term. I don’t know if we mentioned it 
yesterday, but here’s how to listen to people sharing in here. You should listen to the partici-
pants’ shares like that’s you in some way speaking. Even if the person sharing is female and
you’re male. The Forum is not about men and women as men and women as much as it is


=== END OF PAGE 105 ===

=== PAGE 106 ===

92
SPEAKING BEING
about human beings. And I’m inviting you, like a possibility, to see your humanness in anybody 
speaking, and let something open up for you. So who can see an aspect of themselves in what
she just shared?
(many people raising their hands)
SIENNA
I’m also, when I’m in this place of knowing and acting that way, and not being willing to say I
know more than you do, that I’m very insulated about sharing with people, like yesterday, like I 
didn’t want to talk. And I felt very separated from everyone. I didn’t want to see as far as seeing
that my already listenings were similar to other people’s in the room, but I didn’t want to see that it
wasn’t even them and me. I always felt like those things were always kind of special, like the cho-
sen few and not just being human, like everybody. And that separates me, in a way that means that
I don’t share when I’m confused, and people don’t really know what’s going on with me. It’s like 
I’m missing all that. I’m both missing something about being related to people, and I also see how 
I’m stuck there, and that it is important, unless I want to stay here being stuck. I can’t have both.
WES
Thanks. Very useful. Look around the room. You should notice that in a Forum of about 500 
people, there are probably around 20 or 25 hands up. Hands down. Here’s something you want
to get off  of real quick. It’s called participating in The Forum. It’s called sharing in The Forum. 
The fi rst thing you should know is The Forum isn’t real. This is not real life. Now, we’re going to 
sit here for four days, kind of in this artifi cial environment. What’s the point? The point is what 
goes on after in your life. This is coaching for your life. But you’ve got to begin it here. And the
way you begin it here is to start participating, start sharing. It’s okay if you kind of mess it up a
little in here, you see, this isn’t real. But there’s something at stake in here. You have to confront 
what’s at stake for you in here. She just shared something that few people ever see about them-
selves, that their life is about knowing something so as to look good. And the few people who
get that ever, get that it’s killing their life. So here’s a woman who shared something that’s going
to open up her life. That’s what’s happening in The Forum. Are you willing to participate? Okay, 
who’s willing to participate?
(calling on fi ve people who stand)
PHOEBE
I was sure that with all these people putting their hands up I wouldn’t get picked. But I got picked.
WES
Yes. 
PHOEBE
It was safe to do what everyone else was doing. Also, part of my act for looking good is to be
very appropriate.
Being-in-the-World: Being-With
Werner Erhard emerged into public attention during a period char-
acterized by some as a decade of Narcissism, a period when the cul-
ture’s emphasis on self-understanding and personal empowerment 
led to the emergence of what has been called the “Me” generation.
As a result, Erhard’s work was sometimes tarred with that brush. 
For the authors of this book, however, a significant element 
of The Forum experience has been the atmosphere of aff inity and
connection with others that inevitably emerges among partic-
ipants as the course moves toward its conclusion. Certainly, 
individual empowerment is a significant element of the transfor-
mation that The Forum makes available. But this empowerment is
consistently accompanied by an experience of profound related-
ness to others, which then encourages a commitment to commu-
nity contribution. To use a metaphor oft en employed by Erhard, 
the individual empowerment and the sense of connection are as
symbiotic in their emergence as the front and back of a hand.
In Being and Time, Martin Heidegger locates the source of that
connection in the nature of Dasein’s Being-in-the-world.
As noted previously, Dasein, as the clearing for Being-in-
the-world, frees other beings to be the beings they are (see the
sidebar “Being-in-the-World: Being-in” in Session One of Day One, 
WES (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 106 ===

=== PAGE 107 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session One 
93
(referring to Sienna)
What she said, I felt I could identify with and so I felt that I had nothing to contribute. But for
me to really get something out of being here, I really need to say it out loud. I seem to have the 
answer for myself and everyone, and I’m so busy looking good that I’m not getting my..., that
having all the answers has killed off  the possibility in my life.
WES
Like maybe you’ve killed your life.
PHOEBE
Yeah, that I’m so smart and that I’ve got it so fi gured out, that I have the answer and no possi-
bility. And I noticed when we did our homework, last night and this morning, that all that kept
coming up was lots of answers and no new stuff , which is what I think I got out of yesterday,
the possibilities of what my life could be about. That’s what I don’t have is possibility in my life.
WES
Got it. Great. Thanks.
(another participant stands)
ROSS
I’ve been waiting for the right time to get up here and say something profound and so this is the
right time, but it isn’t anything profound.
WES
The wrong time is when it is profound, so you don’t have to worry about it. How many are wait-
ing for something signifi cant, profound, before you’re going to get up to share?
(many raising their hands)
We don’t want your crummy shares! If you really listen you’ll fi nd that the most powerful shares 
are some of the simplest and dealing with the most ordinary aspects of our life. From the power
and insight of The Forum to shed light on the ordinary aspects of our life, you’ll fi nd some of 
the most powerful things you’ve listened to. Thanks for acknowledging that.
ROSS
What happened for me yesterday and last night and I’m convinced, also while I was sleeping,
was just the continuous looking again at all the beliefs, a lot of the things that I’ve been work-
ing on in this area, and opening up diff erent possibilities for it, and starting really, one of the 
reasons why I came to The Forum was that I wanted to take a look at what the barriers were for
my success. I’ve been successful in the past, I’ve been able to create the things that I’ve wanted,
and then they slipped away, for whatever reason, and I really want to take a look at what those
barriers were and what’s been happening. All yesterday and last night, and this morning is, let’s 
take a look at the distinctions. They’re really starting to separate. I fi nd that I spend a lot of time
and energy in the story, and very little time dealing with what’s happening.
as well as the Interval “Dasein: Meaning and Mineness” at the end
of Session Two, Day One). A dog can be a dog only for a human
being; only for a human can a sunset be beautiful. But also among
the entities freed by Dasein to be in the world are other human
beings—entities which are “like the very Dasein which frees them,
in that they are there too, and there with it” (BT 154). 
T
These terms—with and too—are to be understood existential-
ly. That is, Being-there-too does not mean merely that the Others
are present-at-hand in the world, available to be encountered. 
Heidegger is not describing a situation in which beings are located 
alongside each other in world space; rather he is distinguishing
integral elements of the beings themselves. Withness is a part of 
Dasein’s Being—my own Dasein, and the Dasein of Others. The 
“too,” says Heidegger, means a “sameness of Being” (BT 154).
T
Heidegger makes precise use of hyphenation in languaging 
the ontological world-structure he is proposing. Early on in Being
and Time, he specifies that Things—substances, equipment,
objects of nature—are within the world, a location-relationship 
that he indicates by the absence of hyphenation (BT 91). Here, he
T
posits a further specification:
“
  Thus Dasein’s world frees entities which are 
not only quite distinct from equipment and 
Things, but which also—in accordance with
their kind of being as Dasein themselves—are
‘in’ the world in which they are at the same 
time encountered within-the-world, and are 
‘in’ it by way of Being-in-the-world. . . . So if 
one would want to identify the world in gen-
eral with entities within-the-world, one would 
have to say that Dasein too is ‘world.’ (BT 154)
T
So because Dasein—mine and the Others’—are in-the-world exis-
tentially, we can be encountered “in” the world environmentally. 
Once again, we call attention to the deeply reflexive nature
of Heidegger’s ontological distinctions. His languaging repeatedly
turns thinking back upon itself, since his goal is to have us bend
back to see ourselves from a new perspective.


=== END OF PAGE 107 ===

=== PAGE 108 ===

94
SPEAKING BEING
WES
Yeah.
ROSS
And in the short time that I’ve been doing this, I’ve already noticed some openness come into 
the picture.
WES
Yeah, what if you lived your life totally in a story? Just consider that as a possibility. Now I 
know you can always fi nd exceptions, but you know the exception only shows the rule. So don’t
look at the exceptions. Stand in the possibility that your whole life is a story. And as you get
the distinction “story versus what happened,” you might notice that life is passing by, and that
you’re in a story about life. You’re not in life.
ROSS
There were lots of things that I took a look at last night and the major thing that I’d like to share 
with you is integrity... is probably one of my major inauthenticities, at least there’s a possibility 
for that. And I’m real quick to pick it up in somebody else. Actually as a result of yesterday I’ve
been able to look at some of the possibilities where I am not in integrity. I did an exercise with 
my daytimer, and I realized that all the things that are really important to me just didn’t get 
done. And so there’s one major commitment not kept, which I really felt to be important to me 
having accomplished.
WES
Great. Thank you.
MARSHA
Last night when I went home, I guess things were starting to get uncovered because I was so
angry. My normal thing is to be the cheerleader and get up in the morning and get things done
and extend myself so far wide that there’s nothing left for me. It is starting to wear on me physi-
cally, and what I got last night was that I am so angry, so angry: at me. It came across at fi rst last 
night, being so angry at Werner. I did the training 15 years ago, but if I saw Werner out in the 
parking lot last night I would have run him over. I was so angry. I chewed off  my sister-in-law’s 
head last night. It has never been expressed like this before, because it has been so important
to me to express, to get across, “you don’t like me and I’m going to make you like me,” and that 
has taken a tremendous amount of energy, and what is underneath that is just a lot of anger.
WES
And anything underneath that?
MARSHA
I don’t know yet. I’m just really into the anger now.
In Heidegger’s account of Being-with, we find “world” per-
vaded by relatedness. The presence of Others is embedded in all
of our everyday activities. When we are at work on a project, the 
Others for whom the project is being performed are encountered 
in the work. If we walk along the edge of a field, the field “shows
itself as belonging to such and such a person.” If I am at leisure,
the book I am reading “was bought at So-and-so’s shop and given 
by such-and-such a person, and so forth” (BT 154).
T
Heidegger is not making the obvious point that the book 
belongs to someone, but is emphasizing the degree to which the
presence of my relatedness to Others imbues my existence. Others 
whom I encounter in these objects and activities are a part of my 
world and in the same way I am a part of theirs. 
“
 By reason of this with-like Being-in-the-world, 
the world is always the one that I share with 
Others. The world of Dasein is a with-world. 
Being-in is Being-with Others. Their Being-
in-themselves within-the-world is Dasein-with. 
(BT 155)
clearing for me. Others make it possible for me to Be, a situation
that persists even when no Other is present.
“
  Even Dasein’s Being-alone is Being-with in the
world. The Other can be missing only in and for
a Being-with. Being-alone is a deficient mode of 
Being-with; its very possibility is the proof of 
this. (BT 156–157)
T
Thus Heidegger has distinguished in withness an extraordi-
nary existential possibility for human relatedness, a possibility 
which we see as an essential element of The Forum transforma-
tion. Here he specifies another aspect of this connection:
“
 Being-with is such that the disclosedness of 
the Dasein-with of Others belongs to it; this 
means that because Dasein’s Being is Being-
with, its understanding of Being already 


=== END OF PAGE 108 ===

=== PAGE 109 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session One 
95
WES
You’re present to your anger.
MARSHA
I’m very present to my anger. And I am not a nice person. I’m really getting that I’m, a couple peo-
ple looked around here and “oh boy, what a bitch she is.” And I’m saying, I am the biggest fl aming
bitch. And I’ve covered that up for a long time.
WES (to the group)
Consider the possibility that you are a “covering-up.” I did not say you have a covering-up. I said
consider the possibility that you are a covering-up. See, when she deals with herself, deals with
the covering up; cheerleader on top of angry woman, but that’s who she is.
At this point (10:30 am) Erhard appeared at the back of the room, and spoke in response to the
conversation about covering up. His attire remained the same throughout The Forum: today the 
sweater-vest was olive-green, the slacks brown.
ERHARD
The way it works operationally is—it’s something you’re afraid you might be—is angry. There’s
always a something happened—always, always. However it is that you are, there’s always a 
“something happened” that caused that. And almost nobody knows that because they come at
the way they are from the conceptual side, from the descriptive side, from the explanatory side.
When you get to the source of the way you are, there’s always a “something happened.” You put 
yourself together, fashioned yourself as you were growing up. We pay attention, particular atten-
tion to various aspects of what we call our selves, or what we might call, more accurately, your
identity at various eras of our growing up. In a certain era of your growing up, you were building 
a certain part of your identity. And at another era you built another part of your identity. And
then sometimes you go back and put the fi nishing touches on something you built earlier. But I
want you to begin to be able to think that people are manufactured. You and I are constructed.
Whatever it is that you’re referring to when you say “I think,” whatever the “I” refers to, you call 
that your self, or your identity—sometimes you’ll call it your personality. But whatever is being 
referred to when you say “I think,” “I feel,” “I believe”; and it gets put together out of “what hap-
peneds”; and there’s a “what happened” for every piece of you. A lot of who you are, of how you 
got to be the way you are, and a lot of what maintains your identity is a product of what you’re 
afraid you might be. Something happened in Marsha’s life, and she decided it was wrong to be
angry, or she shouldn’t be angry, or only bad people are angry, or something like that.
(Marsha is weeping; Erhard addresses another participant)
Don’t help her. Thanks.
(continuing)
And she decided that was wrong or bad or something she shouldn’t be, and then she got to be 
afraid that she might be that, and so she had to keep that down in the swamp, at the bottom of 
the Valley of the Shadow of Death, and it’s been there for years, and it runs her life: what she’s
afraid she might be. See I don’t even know that she is angry. I don’t know that the truth about
implies the understanding of Others. This un-
derstanding, like any understanding, is not an 
acquaintance derived from knowledge about 
them, but a primordially existential kind of 
Being, which, more than anything else, makes
such knowledge and acquaintance possible.
(BT 160–161)
Of course, says Heidegger, the factical development of my 
relatedness with another human being will always depend upon 
how well I have come to know myself. And here he makes a point
that is significant for our understanding of The Forum dynamic: 
self-knowledge, he says, arises from relatedness to Others:
“
 Of course it is indisputable that a lively mutual
acquaintanceship on the basis of Being-with, 
oft en depends upon how far one’s own Dasein 
has understood itself at the time; but this
means that it depends only upon how far one’s 
essential Being with Others has made itself 
transparent and has not disguised itself. And 
that is possible only if Dasein, as Being-in-the-
world, already is with Others. (BT 162)
We propose that the transformation that occurs for participants 
in The Forum is not an individual experience, but that the
self-knowledge it makes available arises mutually with an under-
standing of others.
This is the function of The Forum’s dialogic structure, in which
even participants who do not participate overtly in the conversa-
tion are able to find themselves in the sharing of others. Forum par-
ticipants are repeatedly exhorted to listen to others’ sharing “like
that’s you in some way speaking.” As the sharing continues, The 
Forum leader persistently deconstructs each participant’s story 
about his or her experience, and frames the experience instead in 
the language of the distinctions being developed. The distinctions
gradually reveal the ontological structures underlying the expe-
riences, structures common to all of the experiences despite the
diff erences in their details.


=== END OF PAGE 109 ===

=== PAGE 110 ===

96
SPEAKING BEING
Marsha is that she’s an angry person. I know that’s what’s running her life. Once she’s able to be
with being angry, once she’s able to give being to being angry, she might fi nd out she’s not angry 
g
at all. But “not being angry” is going to run her life until she’s able to be angry. I know you don’t 
get all that yet. You’re starting to get it. As you go along today you will get it. Before you get out 
of here, you will get at the source of your identity. What happens if you get at the source of your 
identity, somebody with a yellow name tag?
Participant (who is wearing a yellow name tag, i.e. someone doing The Forum for the fi rst time)
It doesn’t own you anymore.
ERHARD
Yeah. It’s that simple. This is something almost nobody knows. You’re now one of the few people in 
the world that knows this. What everybody else in the world knows is that you’ve got to fi x what’s
wrong with you, you’ve got to avoid what’s bad, in you or in life. What you now know is any time
you get at the source of something, you are no longer limited to it. Most people would be afraid to do 
what Marsha has done. They fi nd anger so abhorrent, that they are afraid they might fi nd out that 
they are angry. And they can’t tolerate that, they can’t be with that, and so they never get to the being
angry like that’s a possible way of being; they fi ght against being angry, they reject it. In the 70s you 
were supposed to let it all hang out. That’s indulging anger, that doesn’t work either. When you felt
angry you were supposed to spray it all over the place on people. That’s indulging the anger. That’s as
much bullshit as suppressing the anger. There’s a thing called responsibility. As I told you yesterday 
you don’t know what that means yet, but we’ll get to it before we’re done here. Something close to 
owning something, being able to be with it. So you want to take a look down in the swamp down
there at what you’re afraid you might be or hoped you weren’t, or don’t want to be. That’s where the 
monsters are. The green slimy monsters of what you’re afraid to be are running your life. Most of us
would be afraid to get at it, because we’re afraid we might be
t
it. When you own that, at its source, it
e
no longer owns you. We’re afraid to get at it for fear that we might be it. What you’re afraid of owns
you. Marsha, what did you notice in there?
MARSHA
I notice that I’m angry at everybody and everything in this world.
Erhard (to the group)
You want to get the courage in that. She’s angry waiting to happen: already always angry. It’s all 
over the place. It colors the clearing in which the world occurs for her. And only to the degree
she is willing to be with that, standing in front of 800 people and starting to communicate it,
you’re starting to be with it. That’s a lot diff erent than hoping you’re not that. You were saying?
MARSHA
There isn’t one person in this world that I’m not angry with.
ERHARD
And that’s sad for you.
Through this process, as people in the room hear their own 
concerns repeatedly expressed in the speaking of others, not only
do they gain a new way of understanding their own situation, but 
at the same time, through the mutuality implicit in the Forum’s
dialogic structure, the withness of Being-with-Others is gradually 
brought to presence. The dialogue of The Forum thus unconceals
the possibility of a profound relationship of Being among human
beings. This relatedness, we propose, is at a deeper and more fun-
damental level than the diff erences—of race, ethnicity, religion, or 
politics—that occur for us as persistent barriers to cooperation in
all aspects of our lives. Erhard’s work, and its expanding manifes-
tation in the current programs of Landmark Worldwide, create the 
possibility for transcending those barriers. ■
ERHARD (continuing)
“
 So you want to take a look down in the swamp 
down there at what you’re afraid you might 
be or hoped you weren’t, or don’t want to
be. That’s where the monsters are. The green
slimy monsters of what you’re afraid to be are
running your life. Most of us would be afraid to 
get at it, because we’re afraid we might be it. 
When you own that, at its source, it no longer 
owns you.


=== END OF PAGE 110 ===

=== PAGE 111 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session One 
97
MARSHA
Yeah, because I want relationships with people, and I can’t get close.
ERHARD
Listen up here, because most of you are not going to have the courage for this. So you need
to get it from those who do have the courage. That there’s something sad for her about being
angry—that’s why she’s afraid she might be angry, then it’s all mashed in with being close. 
Convoluted in a knot.
MARSHA
My whole life has been an act about being happy and cheerful, giving and caring, getting every-
body to like me, and they do. The truth is that I don’t have an enemy in the world.
ERHARD
Hold on for a second. So if you’re a person who has the skills that Marsha has, the skills of be-
ing related to people well, and somehow that’s not nurturing her deeply and profoundly; that’s
not leaving her full of joy, because it’s there in order for her not to be angry! Do you hear the
in-order-to? In order not to be angry?
Marsha remained standing while Erhard worked with several other participants.
ERHARD
So if I’m nice in order not to be angry, what persists? You’ve got to get clear on this. Who’s not
clear on this?
A participant named Mike stood.
ERHARD
So Mike, if I relate well, in order not to be angry, when I relate well, what’s always there is being 
angry. It’s being there as something I’m resisting.
Erhard approached another participant, and did a demonstration in which each man grasped the
other’s hands and attempted to push the other away.
ERHARD
So if I’m resisting something, I’m attached to what I’m resisting. All this relating-well dances 
around anger, is attached to anger. I never have any profound sense of being related, because
what persists under being related is being angry all the time. I don’t have a deep sense of fulfi ll-
ment out of relating well, because what persists is being angry all the time. See, I’m not related 
well in order to be related, I’m related well in order not to be angry. You ever notice that real 
nice people, when you crack their shell a little bit, there’s a lot of dissatisfaction and sadness?
You know, there’s a lot of real nice people in here; all you got to do is crack the surface and then
there’s dissatisfaction. Is it starting to be clear?


=== END OF PAGE 111 ===

=== PAGE 112 ===

98
SPEAKING BEING
MIKE
Just a bit. I see you pushing against this gentleman over here, and I’m understanding something
about anger. You’re saying, pushing it away, it’s still there. Kind of fuzzy.
ERHARD
When I push him away, am I not attached to him? 
MIKE
You’re touching him yes.
ERHARD
No, attached to him. I can’t get away from him as I’m pushing him away, can I?
MIKE
No you can’t.
ERHARD
So in a sense I’m attached to him, am I not?
MIKE
And you’re doing the attaching.
ERHARD
Never mind who is doing the attaching.
Erhard returned to the other participant and had him hold Erhard’s shoulders.
ERHARD
So, he’s got me now, right? And I can’t get away. He’s holding on to me, right?
MIKE
Right.
ERHARD
What’s the diff erence between that and this?
Erhard pushed the participant as he did in the previous instance.
ERHARD
In terms of being attached? Whether John is holding on to me, or I’m pushing him away, we are
r
equally attached.
MIKE
Okay.


=== END OF PAGE 112 ===

=== PAGE 113 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session One 
99
ERHARD
So, whatever it is you’re resisting, it’s exactly the same in its end result as what it is you’re
indulging. If I’m addicted to anger, I’m no more or less attached to anger than if I was resisting 
anger. Clear about that part?
MIKE
I am clear about that part.
ERHARD
Good. Let’s go to the next part. By virtue of not being angry... You see, what being eff ective at re-
lating is about for Marsha, it’s about not being angry. So what’s the result of relating eff ectively?
MIKE
I’m lost.
ERHARD
You’re not lost. You’re intelligent. You’re clear that you don’t understand what I’m saying. Say-
ing you understand when you don’t is “lost.” Clear?
t
MIKE
I want to say yes, but... go ahead.
ERHARD
Is it clear that you aren’t lost?
MIKE
It’s clear that I don’t know what you are talking about right now.
ERHARD
Yeah. That’s pretty clear isn’t it? So you’re not lost. You’re clear.
MIKE
I got that.
ERHARD
Good. Now we’re going back to this business about “if I relate well in order to avoid anger,”
what is the result of my relating well?
MIKE
I’m avoiding the anger.
ERHARD
Perfect. Is there any satisfaction in that? Is that going to leave you whole?


=== END OF PAGE 113 ===

=== PAGE 114 ===

100
SPEAKING BEING
MIKE
It’ll delay confronting the anger.
ERHARD
It might do that but that’s not my point. My point is that being well related with somebody 
ought to be a source of fulfi llment and satisfaction, yes? 
MIKE
That’s a presupposition.
ERHARD
Yeah: A fairly safe one. If you and I are well related, there ought to be a sense of being fulfi lled 
by that.
MIKE
Okay.
ERHARD
But if you and I are well related in order to avoid being angry, the result of being well related
is not satisfaction and fulfi llment: it is avoiding being angry. So you can be well related all over
the place and it’s not going to leave you full of joy or profoundly satisfi ed. It’s going to leave you
having avoided anger. You won and they gave you the booby prize. Is that clearer?
MIKE
Yes.
ERHARD
There are accomplished people who are not nurtured by their accomplishments, because they 
are accomplished in order to not be something they’re avoiding being.
(to Mike) 
Do you get that?
MIKE
Partially.
ERHARD
Okay, let’s get it completely clear.
MIKE
Okay.
“
 But if you and I are well related in order to 
avoid being angry, the result of being well 
related is not satisfaction and fulfillment: it is 
avoiding being angry.


=== END OF PAGE 114 ===

=== PAGE 115 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session One 
101
ERHARD
This is a room full of highly accomplished people. And you know accomplished people?
MIKE
Sure.
ERHARD
And they are not necessarily profoundly satisfi ed, are they?
MIKE
No they’re not.
ERHARD
And they’re not full of joy.
MIKE
No they’re not.
ERHARD
There’s something wrong there. When people see that, like you and me, we start to come up 
with these stupid conclusions. “Well, life isn’t worth it after all. You get all this stuff  done and
so what?” “Is that all there is? I got to be the president of the company,” or “I raised a wonderful 
family. Success is shit. Do what you want.” People give up accomplishment: all these weird solu-
tions. Accomplishment doesn’t work for people because they do it in order not to be something. 
Clear?
MIKE
I get the theory.
ERHARD
Once you get what you call the theory, you want to stand in that theory and look at life. People
who get married in order to not be lonely, even when they are successful in the marriage, sim-
ply end up being not lonely, while still being attached to “lonely.” This whole big possibility of 
being married or being related, they’re not there. They’re in “lonely.” Clear?
MIKE
That part is clear.
ERHARD
Which part isn’t clear?
MIKE
I’m just trying to digest everything.
NOTE: This is a “hint” toward the conversation near the end 
of Day Three called “There’s something wrong here.”


=== END OF PAGE 115 ===

=== PAGE 116 ===

102
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
Don’t try to digest everything. What I want you to do is stand in it and look out in life.
MIKE
How do I do that?
ERHARD
Tell me how to walk. And then I’ll tell you how to do that.
MIKE
Lean forward.
ERHARD
Tell me how to lean forward.
MIKE
Bend your back.
ERHARD
Tell me how to bend my back.
(silence)
The truth is, you don’t know how to walk. You walk, but you don’t know how to walk. You 
don’t walk out of “knowing how.” Even if you studied anatomy and knew every single muscle I 
needed to use, and understood the operation of all the parts of the body, and all the neural path-
ways impulses had to be sent down, you wouldn’t know how to generate them in the fi rst place,
besides which, you couldn’t keep all that in mind to lift one leg up, let alone to walk, right? The
fact is you don’t know how to walk. You just walk.
MIKE
I guess I never looked at it from that point of view.
ERHARD
You never looked at it from that point of view. You don’t need to guess about it. Who you are is 
an “I guess.” You don’t know how to walk, do you?
MIKE
I can walk.
ERHARD
Yes. That’s not in discussion.


=== END OF PAGE 116 ===

=== PAGE 117 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session One 
103
MIKE
Yes, I know how to walk.
ERHARD
Okay, tell me.
MIKE
No, I don’t know how to walk.
ERHARD
Okay good.
(to the group)
You’ve all got a lot of stupid notions. You’re a bunch of thoughtless people. You’ve given very 
little thought to anything of signifi cance. You have a lot of thoughts, but you don’t give thought.
So in here, you and I are going to give thought. Like most of the other people on the plan-
et, Mike never stopped to look at whether he knew how to walk: wasn’t too important to his 
walking, so why bother? But in here, some of the things you take for granted, we won’t take
those things for granted. See, it’s common sense that if a person walks they know how to. But 
Mike and I just reduced the idea of knowing how to walk to an absurdity. Maybe knowing how 
is not the pathway. You can’t produce art by the numbers. So getting back to this standing in a
possibility: you think it, not believe it or agree with it. You think it. You think: “people are ac-
complished in-order-to.” So what they get is avoiding the “order-to.” But avoiding the “order-to”
is the same as being attached to the “order-to.” Stand in there and take a look at life from there 
and think that, generate it as a possibility. Speak to yourself or others. Clear?
MIKE
Yes.
ERHARD
Thank you. That was a very useful conversation.
MIKE
Thank you.
(applause)
ERHARD (returning to Marsha)
So Marsha, you were saying?
MARSHA
I’m angry at everyone in the world, because what I know about each person in the world is that
they don’t like me. I’m angry at them.
Giving and Reflexion
In his use here of the word “gives,” Erhard is employing a term 
that was central in Heidegger’s eff orts to say the relationship of 
language to Being.
For anyone who has participated in the work of Werner Er-
hard, and has experienced the way that a particular combination
of words can make available a new perspective on the world, a
primary delight in reading Heidegger is surrendering to his precise 
and profoundly reflexive languaging. Its frequent circularity is 
consistent with its purpose, which is not to take us anywhere new, 
but to bring us “back to where we already are,” which, he warns, is
“infinitely harder.” His task is to “think Being without beings”—that
is, to bring Being to language as distinct from beings, a distinction
that has been lost to our metaphysical tradition. He wants to say 
Being; his task is therefore “unceasingly to overcome the obstacles
that tend to render such saying inadequate” (OTB 24). 
The Being of Language
One of these obstacles he confronts in undertaking this task is
found in the nature of language itself. Language was increasingly
the focus in Heidegger’s later writing, and his most well-known 
statement is his assertion that “Language is the House of Being”
(“LH” in BW 217). But what about the Being of language itself?
W
Here Heidegger articulates the conundrum:
“
 We speak of language, but constantly seem 
to be speaking merely about language, while 
in fact we are already letting language, from 
within language, speak to us, in language, of 
itself, saying its nature. (“NL” in OWL 85) 
Heidegger’s characteristic response to this aporic puzzle is to 
problematize it further, beginning with a line from the German 
poet Stefan George, which reasserts his own view of language:
“Where word breaks off  no thing may be.” He teases us into the
paradox created by this statement: if without language things can-
not be, then things are only when the word already is. But is a word 
a thing? On the one hand, it seems so: “if the word is to endow the
thing with being, it too must be before any thing is—thus it must


=== END OF PAGE 117 ===

=== PAGE 118 ===

104
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
So, “I am ‘they don’t like me’ waiting to happen.” The already always listening I am is “you 
don’t like me, so what was that you were going to say?”
MARSHA
I am already always “you don’t like me.” I’m angry at that.
ERHARD (to the group)
Yeah. And something happened when Marsha was a little girl. And when somebody didn’t like 
her, getting angry worked for that little girl. Now the little girl is running the mature woman
with a lot of relational skills being put to use by a little girl who gets angry because people don’t
like her. There’s a little girl mashed in with a mature and competent woman. And the mashing 
is that the little girl is in charge, calling the shots. And the mature competent woman keeps her
in charge by being afraid she might be angry, and not wanting to be. And see, the people who
can see Marsha now want to make her feel better. I don’t want to make her feel better. I want 
her just like she is, because what she is doing is growing up. She’s getting to the source of what 
she’s afraid she might be. When she’s completed that, she’ll have a freedom to be that she didn’t
have before this conversation. She won’t know better how not to be angry. There’ll be a freedom
that wasn’t there before. She’ll be related to people eff ectively in order to be related to people
eff ectively. That’s fulfi lling. The thing in itself. Anything else?
MARSHA
I suppressed anger starting in the fi fth grade.
ERHARD
What happened?
(to the group)
Listen through the distinctions we developed yesterday. “People don’t like me” never happens.
It’s a story about what happens. “People don’t like me” can’t happen. If you can’t see that, stand 
up?
A participant stood up and takes a microphone.
ERHARD
Lisa, I said, “people don’t like me” never happens.
LISA (smiling)
I get it now.
ERHARD
It never happens, it’s always a story isn’t it? It’s a story about what happened. Larry said you’re
a jerk. He might even have said, “I don’t like you.” That’s what happened, and you told the story 
“people don’t like me.” “People don’t like me” can’t happen, can it?
inescapably be itself a thing” (“NL” in OWL 86). But can a thing
then give being to another thing? If things cannot be without the
prior existence of words, the inevitable conclusion is that “word
and thing are diff erent, even disparate” (“NL” in OWL 86). But what
could be the nature of that diff erence?
Words can be said, but can the word for a word ever be said? A
dictionary is filled with terms, but no words, since “a dictionary can 
neither grasp nor keep the word by which the terms become words
and speak as words.” When we try to think this, Heidegger proposes, 
we seem to arrive at the conclusion that “saying has no being.” But 
then another question presents itself: we say a thing is when a word
is available. But what about the “is” itself? “The ‘is’ cannot be found
anywhere as a thing attached to a thing.” Indeed, “It belongs no more 
among the things that are than does the word” (“NL” in OWL 87).
At this point in our thinking, we may throw in the towel; or, 
says Heidegger, if we will follow him for one more step, we may be
struck by something we had not noticed. While we have reached no
answers in our inquiry—it has raised neither the word nor the “is”
nor the relation between the two to the status of thinghood—it has
pointed us toward something “thought-provoking and memorable.” 
It has suggested the possibility of “what is there and yet ‘is’ not.” 
“
 The word, too, belongs to what is there—per-
haps not merely “too” but first of all, and even
in such a way such that the word, the nature
of the word, conceals within itself that which 
gives [B]eing. If our thinking does justice to 
the matter, then we may never say of the word
that it is, but rather that it gives—not in the 
sense that words are given by an “it,” but that
the word itself gives. (“NL” in OWL 87-88)
Out of the unspoken background, the word gives a context of 
meaning for human action.
Thus we have dug down to the essential simplicity: es gibt (it
t
gives). Heidegger is languaging the Being/being relationship that
is also the heart of his important term, appropriation. As we will 
show later in this book, the nature of appropriation is absolutely 
central to the ultimate rhetorical move of The Forum.


=== END OF PAGE 118 ===

=== PAGE 119 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session One 
105
(Lisa shakes her head)
Clear?
LISA
Yes.
ERHARD
Anybody else not get this?
(another participant stands)
MASON
So you’re saying it’s never possible that it’s people in general? It could be one person?
ERHARD
There’s no such thing as “people” happening.
MASON
So it could be Frank doesn’t like me.
ERHARD
Yeah. “People don’t like me” is always a story, isn’t it?
MASON
I got that.
ERHARD
“People don’t like me” never happened. “Nobody liked me” never happened. Always a story,
right?
(to Marsha)
What happened?
MARSHA
What happened is, from Kindergarten through fourth grade was fun. In the fi fth grade girls 
were developing, noticing boys, but I was still in pigtails...
ERHARD
Hold on. You wanna start being able to be with people here. Whatever you were yesterday isn’t 
going to work today. You have to be powerfully with people. You’ve got to be up on the edge 
of your chair when this woman is giving you a gift you ain’t going to get again. You’re going to
Werner Erhard, who found in Heidegger’s vocabulary a way of 
expanding the value that his own work made available, discussed 
the nature of giving in a 1989 satellite telecast from New York City.
“
 A distinction gives. It comes into existence 
by giving. . . .  You’ve got to be able to think
something coming into existence in the act
of giving existence. Distinguishing arises in 
the act of giving—hard for us to think about
because we can only think serially. I’m ask-
ing you to think of a new kind of relationship 
called giving. . . . This is getting to the essence
of Being. There’s no such thing as Being. You 
can’t separate Being from the world, therefore 
there’s no such thing as Being. . . . Being arises
in the act of giving. (“Beyond the Winning 
Formula”)
Reflexive languaging demands that thinking bend back on itself.
Such languaging is inherent in thinking about Being; note how that
very phrase tickles the mind. 
While Heidegger’s writing is oft en considered to be highly
complex, he suggests an alternate view: “What is strange in the 
thinking of Being is its simplicity. Precisely this keeps us from it”
(“LH” in BW 263, emphasis added). Heidegger teases out this idea
W
further in his “Letter on Humanism.” At one point in the letter, 
when considering the role of language in Being, he calls attention
to a specific instance of its simplicity:
“
 But just now an example of the inconspicu-
ous deed of thinking manifested itself. For to
the extent that we expressly think the usage
“bring to language,” which was granted to
language, think only that and nothing fur-
ther, to the extent that we retain this thought
in the heedfulness of saying as what in the 
future continually has to be thought, we have 
brought something of the essential unfolding 
of Being itself to language. (“LH” in BW 263)


=== END OF PAGE 119 ===

=== PAGE 120 ===

106
SPEAKING BEING
go back out of here three days from now, and nobody’s gonna talk this straight to you. You’re 
going to go out and have those chicken shit conversations with people. So you want to get what 
you can out of this. And you aren’t going to be able to see this in yourself until you can see it
in Marsha. All that sadness of the fi fth grader is there right now. Marsha’s got a fi fth grader 
running her life. This is a mature, attractive, confi dent, accomplished woman with a fi fth grader 
calling the shots.
(to Marsha)
You were saying?
MARSHA
Suddenly there was a distinction. It was not okay with the other girls that I was not growing up. 
They starting getting in like a clique. And...
ERHARD
Talking behind your back and excluding you, and no longer was there that kind of loose easy 
sense of being with people. Now it was a drama to be with people: a kind of plot; a kind of 
strategy.
MARSHA
What I saw worked a little bit was to start getting happy, bubbly.
ERHARD
So this is pretty intelligent for a fi fth grader. It makes very good sense for a ten-year-old girl to
say the answer to this is to be happy all the time. You got to remember this is Marsha inventing
Marsha. This is Marsha inventing her identity. She has happiness as a way to push away sad-
ness. Then what happened?
MARSHA
As we grew up, they were the attractive ones, the cheerleaders; the boys were interested in 
them...
ERHARD
Listen up here, because this is about to get really stupid. Here is a really attractive woman who’s 
going to tell you she was not in with the girls who were attractive. Stupid in the sense that this 
is not logical.
MARSHA
Up until the fi fth grade I was called ___, after my ninety year old aunt who was an “old maid.”
ERHARD (to the group, lightly)
How come men are bachelors and women are called old maids? I don’t get it.
ERHARD (continuing)
In considering reflexive languaging, one is immediately reminded
of koan meditation—the process in which a Zen student is assigned
a single problematic phrase upon which he or she meditates until 
its embedded ontological hurdle has been made. The paradigmatic 
koan is the question, “What is the sound of one hand clapping?”
Heidegger’s paragraph above, considered carefully, pulls one
toward koan-like thinking.
Michael E. Zimmerman has likened Heidegger’s use of 
aporia—unresolvable problems—to the existential puzzles found
in koans. As an example, he cites the aporic conceptual dilem-
ma, central to Heidegger’s thought, that Being is inconceivable 
except as a being, and yet no being can be a being without a prior 
experience of its Being. As Zimmerman points out, the solution
to such aporia is beyond the capabilities of rational thought; and 
this is precisely the power of reflexion, that it turns the thinker’s
thinking reflexively in upon itself, demanding a diff erent kind of 
d
thinking and thus a diff erent thinker: “Before one can speak about 
the diff erence between Being and beings, it is crucial that one put 
oneself in the position of being able to experience that diff erence”
(“Heidegger and Heraclitus on Spiritual Practice” 100). Participants
in The Forum have put themselves in that position.
The experience of engaging one’s mind with a profoundly
relexive idea may be imagined as the process of revving an engine 
so hard that the torque sends it flying off  its mounts. This image 
calls to our minds the way participants in The Forum “get it” aft er 
several days of struggling to understand it conceptually.
Reflexive languagings, and the thinking they demand, are cen-
tral in the work of both Heidegger and Erhard. Erhard distinguishes 
thinking from having thoughts, and he hints at the diff erence using 
such languaging as “This statement is false,” “I always lie,” or “A
superstition is a superstition only when it isn’t a superstition, and
a superstition isn’t a superstition only when it is a superstition.”
Such statements call for thinking, call for the movement of thought
l
through the structure given in language. ■


=== END OF PAGE 120 ===

=== PAGE 121 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session One 
107
MARSHA
That’s when I changed my name to Marsha. I wouldn’t answer to that other name any more.
And by the time I got to high school, there was a new group. The act was down great. It worked.
I was class vice president. I became popular on a diff erent...
ERHARD
Not quite right, though, still popular; popular enough to avoid being unpopular. Your identity 
got built when the issue was popularity.
(to the group)
You got put together for the purpose of dealing with issues like popularity.
MARSHA
As years went by, I got it down good that I won homecoming queen in college; student body 
president; president of the sorority: everything.
ERHARD
She’s now one of those kids you couldn’t be that you thought had it all together. She was the
popular kids: the in-crowd; the one who whispered behind your back. These were the people 
who were really happy, not like you.
Erhard stopped to address a participant sitting down, who remained seated, without a microphone,
and who shook her head in response to each of Erhard’s questions.
ERHARD (continuing)
Is this hitting close to home? Popularity wasn’t your thing? What did you care? You have a chip
on your shoulder? If I asked your friends if you had a chip on your shoulder, what would they 
tell me? I know you can’t think for them, but what do you think they would say? Think about it. 
I’ll be back.
(laughter; to Marsha)
You were saying?
MARSHA
I’ve got six children, a wonderful husband: I arrange everything.
ERHARD
You generate the family. You source the family. 
MARSHA
But I am so thin and my body can’t do it anymore.
THE THEY-SELF
Throughout his work, Werner Erhard has proposed that the fun-
damental purpose for human beings in our current Cartesian 
paradigm—their design function—is the survival of the self; and
that just as survival for a biological organism requires food and water, 


=== END OF PAGE 121 ===

=== PAGE 122 ===

108
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
Listen carefully. What Marsha’s telling you doesn’t belong to her. That bullshit is all over the 
place. It’s a rainstorm. It’s all over the place: that bullshit about being stretched too thin. You
ain’t ever going to be big enough to operate in a way that doesn’t leave you unnurtured and too
thin. You’re going to die disappointed, because you aren’t ever going to accomplish enough to be 
fulfi lled when accomplishment is there in-order-to. All you’re doing is building dissatisfaction that
accomplishment is designed to avoid. It looks like a big pile of satisfaction. I mean, here’s a wom-
an who was successful as an older child; successful in college. Extraordinarily successful raising 
six children, married to a great guy: and it’s making her “thin.” It makes you thin when those
accomplishments are in-order-to. It ought to be making her “thicker” not “thinner.” They make
you thinner when they’re not fulfi lling, when they’re not enlivening, when they’re a strategy.
(to Marsha)
What else?
MARSHA
Here I am today.
ERHARD
You’re in the right place.
(applause)
You aren’t going to be around that much honesty for the most part. What you and I did yes-
terday was put together a structure in which it is possible to be honest. You need to develop a
language for honesty. You can’t be honest in everyday language. It’s not designed for honesty.
You and I have been building a structure of distinctions designed for honesty. So you and I have 
been building a language, a set of distinctions, building a structure where it is possible to be
honest. You’ve got to be a big person to be authentic about your inauthenticity. Being authentic 
about your inauthenticity gives you being big. There’s no “big” inside of Marsha. No qualities 
in there. What you and I describe as “qualities” arise in the moment of action. Someone who is
authentic about their own inauthenticity is giving themselves being big. Is that clear to you?
(returning to participant who remained seated without a mic)
There are no big people in here, because people are neither big nor small. They’re just people. 
And when you’re authentic about your inauthenticity, it gives you being big. If she already had
the quality in there, that would be like being tall. If big were inside us, there wouldn’t be any-
thing very interesting about that, would there? Big arises in the acting. On the common sense
view, what would it occur to you to do with your inauthenticity? Hide it. Stamp it out. Change
it. Fix it. Repair it. The way you already always are about your inauthenticity is something 
across the spectrum from fi x it, not-be-it, shove it down, across the spectrum to hide it. The idea 
to share it would never occur to you. The idea to dump it on others might occur to you because 
of the idea you’ve got called “friends.” It’s pure crap, what you tell your friends, pure crap. Be-
cause what do you tell your friends? The story. They have no respect for you so they sympathize 
with you. They think you’re crap, just the same as you do, and that’s sad. And the appropriate
for an ontological entity, such as a human identity, the essential
survival requirements are being right and looking good, which 
together justify and maintain whatever way we wound up being.
Both of these elements are addressed here during the second 
day of The Forum. Being right is proposed as one of the primary 
payoff s in the structure of a racket; and the discussion of looking
good grows out of the assignment given at the end of the first day, 
when participants were told to locate the places in their life where
they were being “used by looking good.” Both of these distinctions 
are essential elements of the model Erhard is creating in order to 
deconstruct our Cartesian understanding and reveal the clearing
for a new possibility of being human.
Heidegger has likewise proposed a structure for understand-
ing human Being (Dasein) in terms of its domination by a concern 
for the opinions of others. His rubric for this structure is das Man.
In the standard translation of Being and Time, this phrase is ren-
dered as the “they,” and here Heidegger describes the situation:
“
 [Dasein] itself is not; its Being has been taken
away by the Others. . . . These Others, more-
over, are not definite Others. On the contrary, 
any Other can represent them. What is de-
cisive is just that inconspicuous domination 
by Others which has already been taken over 
unawares from Dasein as Being-with. . . . The 
“who” is not this one, not that one, not one-
self, not some people, and not the sum of them 
all. The ‘who’ is the neuter, the “they.y ” (BT 164)
Hubert Dreyfus proposes that to translate das Man in this way 
suggests that I am to be distinguished from them. But the point is
that the “they” has taken me over, so that in being dominated by
the “they” I am one of them. Therefore Dreyfus prefers the trans-
lation “the One”; that is, we don’t conform to the norms because 
“they” do it, but because “it’s what one does” (BITW 151–152). 
W
Says Heidegger: “In this inconspicuousness and unascertainability,
the real dictatorship of the ‘they’ is unfolded” (BT 164). As a result,
T
Dasein loses itself in the ways of Being of the “they,” and the Self of 
everyday Dasein becomes the they-self.


=== END OF PAGE 122 ===

=== PAGE 123 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session One 
109
response to that is sympathy. Awww, you poor thing. Marsha, thank you very much. And you
want to be clear that when Marsha sits down some of what didn’t resolve for her while she was 
standing up, although she was pretty complete about that, the rest of that will resolve for her.
See it’s like a house of cards: when you take one of the cards out, the whole thing falls down.
That whole thing that’s tied together begins to break apart. There’s more attached to that, that
Marsha didn’t tell us. She hasn’t looked all the way through it, and doesn’t want to be up there
for a half hour telling the whole thing. She already gave you one insight. Anger was related to
“people don’t like me.” And “I’m angry at people for not liking me.” So you fi nd the anger and
see that what’s attached to that is “people don’t like me.” And what’s attached to that is I’ve got 
to be likeable, and then you get really good at being likeable. Not in some cheap sense, not with 
smoke and mirrors; earned like. She produced the results, earned the contribution. Put out the
energy. And she’s gotten really good at it.
(moving among the participants on the fl oor)
The problem is that when it’s there in order to avoid not being liked, about which I’m angry...
Accomplishment doesn’t leave you nurtured. That’s why they have happy hours after work. The
way people relate to their job, accomplishment in their job doesn’t nurture them.
(turning to a participant who had been standing the entire time)
JODIE
Interesting how much things have changed since I stood up.
ERHARD
Amazing, right?
JODIE
Looking good rules my life: completely and utterly.
ERHARD
If you haven’t seen yet that looking good owns your life... if you haven’t seen that yet... I prom-
ise you that that’s the case. You may not have seen it yet. So you don’t know that it is the case. 
Like I said, I don’t know the truth, but I’m also not a guy in a diner about this, not a guy with 
an opinion. If you haven’t seen this you want to be listening up. Like Mike and I were saying,
you want to listen to this like a possibility...that when Jodie’s fi nished, you want to stand in the 
possibility that you don’t own your life, that your life doesn’t belong to you. Yeah, you’ve got 
this arrogant façade that you run your life and call the shots. Listen to Jodie’s sharing out of this 
possibility: to see how your life is shaped by looking good. And the quality of your life is that
of a life devoted to looking good. Your actions are limited to the span of action being given by 
looking good. Stand in that possibility when Jodie is fi nished.
JODIE
What also came up from yesterday when you talked about concept and experience and rein-
forcing each other, my whole life is, that I’ve got to look good and if I don’t look good it doesn’t
Heidegger specifies other characteristics of the “they” which 
thereby become aspects of our everydayness. First, because we 
generally encounter others in the context of our everyday con-
cerns—the competitive environment of the workplace, as well as 
the social and political realms—we experience “constant care as 
to the way one diff ers from them, whether one’s own Dasein has 
lagged behind the Others and wants to catch up in relationship
to them, or whether one’s Dasein has priority over them and sets 
out to keep them suppressed” (BT 164–165). As this complex of 
T
concerns takes Dasein over, the withness of Being-with-Others is
interrupted:
“
 The care about this distance between them is 
disturbing to Being-with-one-another, though 
this disturbance is one that is hidden from 
it. If we may express this existentially, such 
Being-with-one-another has the character of 
distantiality. (BT 164)
Further, since the “they” is everyone and no one, it is characterized 
as well by averageness:
“
 Thus the “they” maintains itself factically 
in the averageness of that which belongs to 
it, of that which it regards as valid and that
which it does not, and of that to which it grants 
success and that to which it denies it. In this 
averageness with which it prescribes what 
can and may be ventured, it keeps watch over 
everything exceptional that thrusts itself to 
the fore. Every kind of priority gets noiseless-
ly suppressed. Overnight, everything that is 
primordial gets glossed over as something that 
has long been well known. Everything gained 
by a struggle becomes just something to be
manipulated. Every secret loses its force. This 
care of averageness reveals in turn an essential 
tendency of Dasein which we call the “levelling 
down” of all possibilities of Being. (BT 165)


=== END OF PAGE 123 ===

=== PAGE 124 ===

110
SPEAKING BEING
come off  well, and that reinforces that I’ve got to look good. And it just goes
around and around.
ERHARD
So when you don’t look good, it reinforces looking good, and when you do
look good, that reinforces looking good.
JODIE
And that there’s been times in my life where, that looking good prevents me 
from expressing what I want to express. I could go home to my intimate rela-
tionship and I could go home alone and say “okay, at least I look good.”
ERHARD
Yeah. Listen. Your little $625, that’s chicken shit compared to what you just 
got from her. You can’t buy that kind of honesty. That’s more insight than most 
people are ever going to have in their entire life. What she told you is that you
don’t own your life.  Looking good owns your life. And life is not about self-ex-
pression. You now know why there’s no satisfaction in your success. Looking
good is gratifying, but not fulfi llment. You notice it’s never enough. Nothing is
ever enough. Nothing. Nothing leaves you whole and complete, nothing leaves 
you full of joy. Because that’s not the name of the game. The name of the
game is looking good. It’s the only game in town. You are not living life. You 
are looking good. Of course, some people look good by looking bad. A lot of 
people look good by being the victim. For example, if you screw up someplace 
when you’re a kid and get a lot of attention. People who are unable. It’s a way 
of life. There’s an organ for some people called dealing with electrical things,
and they don’t have that organ, you see.
(laughter)
Not long ago they burned women to death in Scotland as a favor because their
souls were possessed. The best people in the community applied the tests to 
see if a woman’s soul was possessed by a devil. A lot of what you know to 
be true is in the same order as what those Scots knew that led them to burn
women to death. One of those things that isn’t true is that you own your life,
because you don’t. One of those things that isn’t true is that you’re free, but
you’re not. You’re owned by looking good.
JODIE
For me what happened was I was unattractive as a child. I was 5 feet 8 inches 
at 12 years old. I always stood out in a crowd, was gawky and all that. Always
popular with the girls and never with the boys. Unattractive all the way through
high school. And when I was 17 the transformation took place. I lost 35 pounds, 
got contact lenses and a professional haircut. All of a sudden men liked me.
What showed up for me was that when I was young men didn’t like me.
Collectively, these ways of being—distantiality, averageness, and
levelling down—constitute what Heidegger calls “Publicness,” 
which
“
 controls every way in which the world and Da-
sein get interpreted, and it is always right—not 
because there is some distinctive and primary 
relationship-of-Being in which it is related 
to ‘Things,’ or because it avails itself of some 
transparency on the part of Dasein which it 
has explicitly appropriated, but because it is 
insensitive to every diff erence of level and of 
genuineness and thus never gets to the ‘heart 
of the matter.’ (BT 165, emphasis added)
Finally, although all of this would seem to paint an unrelieved-
ly bleak picture for Dasein’s possibility of Being-in-the-world, there
is one more element that, at first glance, might seem to provide 
some relief, and might (initially at least) be called “the upside of 
the they-self.” In Werner Erhard’s model, it is in fact one of the 
“payoff s” in the structure of a racket:
“
 [B]ecause the “they” presents every judgment 
and decision as its own, it deprives the particu-
lar Dasein of its answerability. The “they” can, 
as it were, manage to have ‘them’ constantly 
invoking it. . . . It ‘was’ always the “they” who 
did it, and yet it can be said that it has been 
‘no one.’ . . . .Thus the particular Dasein in its 
everydayness is disburdened by the “they.” Not 
only that; by thus disburdening it of its Being, 
the “they” accommodates Dasein if Dasein has 
any tendency to take things easily and make 
them easy. (BT 165) 
And what Dasein wouldn’t want to make things easy? Avoidance
of responsibility for one’s situation, and off -loading of blame 
JODIE (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 124 ===

=== PAGE 125 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session One 
111
ERHARD
Now is that true? Did that ever happen? “Men don’t like me?” Is it true “I’m not attractive”? Is
that true? Could that be true? Who said yes? “Not attractive” could happen? Stand up. I want 
you to tell me how that could happen.
SAM
I could make it up that I’m not attractive.
ERHARD
Oh, that’s a story. “Not attractive” can’t happen. Did you ever wonder, “that guy is so unattractive.
How did he ever get that woman? She must be blind.” Do you know that attraction is the weirdest 
stuff  in the universe? Everybody’s attractive. A lot of people don’t troll their bait, that’s all. So if 
your story is that “I’m tall and gawky and not attractive,” you don’t have your bait out. I would be
willing to bet that there isn’t anybody for whom there are no fi sh, given what I’ve seen. You begin
to live out of a story that you’re not attractive. Don’t tell me there are no fi sh if you’re not trolling.
(to Jodie)
You were saying?
JODIE
So I got attractive. And I know that I can walk into a room and every man will look at me.
That’s happened for me.
ERHARD
Nothing’s changed about being tall, right? Tall is now attractive. Same stuff . I want to get this
clear with you. You gotta get this.
Erhard walked to the blackboard, and drew two circles. One circle he labeled “attractive,” one he 
labeled “not attractive.” He wrote “tall” in both.
(continuing)
The way things are is not determined by the way things are. That’s hard to think, so that’s what
I’m asking you to think. The way things are is determined by the context in which things occur.
t
I’m wanting you to begin to see that this part—the circle, the context—is critically important.
I’m saying that the circumstances never produce problems. I don’t care what happened in your
r
life. That’s not the problem. I don’t care if you were raped when you were a little girl or you 
were molested when you were a little boy. I don’t care who’s sitting there with cancer. I know 
you think that did something bad to you. I’m saying no. The circumstances never are the prob-
lem. Tall occurs as not attractive in one context, in one domain of existence, and tall occurs as
attractive in another domain of existence. Anybody not get that? It’s never what happened that’s 
the problem. I don’t care what’s happened in your life. That is not the problem. The problem is 
the context in which “what happened” occurred.
(to Jodie)
Yes, you were saying...
onto someone or something else whom you can make wrong, is 
a significant payoff  of one’s racket, a distinction that has been
mentioned several times but will not be distinguished until the
next session. 
Aside from the payoff , the structure of a racket has another 
element: the cost. And here Heidegger names it: “[B]ecause the 
‘they’ constantly accommodates the particular Dasein by disbur-
dening it of its Being, the ‘they’ retains and enhances its stubborn 
dominion” (BT 165). Through its surrender to the domination of 
T
the “they,” Dasein has embraced the Cartesian security of being 
right in its averageness; but it has at the same time sacrificed its 
freedom and power. As The Forum participant Jodie states, “look-
ing good rules my life.”
In these “characters of Being,” says Heidegger, we find “the
‘constancy’ of Dasein which is closest to us” (BT 166). Certainly, the
T
attitudes and behaviors he has presented here are familiar to all
of us—and if we can’t quite recognize them in ourselves, we can 
certainly recognize them in others, or in the culture at large. And 
we must feel some discomfort in acknowledging that his descrip-
tions are so apt.
But straight talk about the way things look now is the essen-
tial first step in gaining a new perspective; and in The Forum, the 
creation of a new possibility must be preceded by a hard look at 
our present way of Being. Heidegger takes us through the steps 
one at a time.
“
 Neither the Self of one’s own Dasein nor the 
Self of the Other has as yet found itself or lost 
itself as long as it is in the modes we have 
mentioned. In these modes one’s way of Being 
is that of inauthenticity and failure to stand 
by one’s Self. (BT 166)
Confronting the reality of the they-self responds to the first question 
of The Forum: “What is the Being of human being?” Authenticity 
and taking a stand become available when the second is addressed: 
“What is the possibility of Being for human being?” ■


=== END OF PAGE 125 ===

=== PAGE 126 ===

112
SPEAKING BEING
JODIE
When I was a child, I was not liked by boys. That’s my story...
ERHARD
Or boys didn’t say certain things to you. That’s what happened. And boys didn’t act in certain
ways with you. There’s a thousand possible stories: “I was so awesome that those twerps didn’t 
have the balls to say to me what they said to those little girls.”
JODIE
That’s what I say now.
ERHARD
All I’m trying to point out is that a story is just a story. The “what happened,” that’s what’s true 
or not. It did or it didn’t. Mostly true. Because she wouldn’t have even noticed boys not saying
or acting a certain way unless her listening was “boys don’t like me.” If your listening is that 
somebody doesn’t like you, everything they say is an expression of not liking you. If we pushed 
Jodie hard enough she could go back and remember that “oh yeah, one of them was trying to be 
nice to me once.” Something like that.
JODIE
So I got attractive and, men asked me out. What I fi nd now is that as an adolescent I believed
that men didn’t like me, so when I got attractive it was like a shell I was putting on.
ERHARD
This is good. I got to stop you because they are listening like this is a soap opera and they need
to listen deeply.
(to the group)
If you’re attractive to make up for not being attractive... if who you really are is unattractive, but
they don’t know that, every time you are attractive, what you are left with is being unattractive. 
When you change unattractive to attractive, what persists is unattractive. It’s a con game, under-
neath which is unattractive. There’s no object that has the quality “attractive.” There’s no being
fulfi lled in being attractive. There’s stuff  in my house I think is wonderful, the dog walks right by.
JODIE
When someone tells me “You’re really beautiful,” what comes up for me is “but you don’t 
really know me.” When I go home I take this off  and there’s the real me and you won’t like that 
person.
ERHARD
Here’s what you want to get: nobody wants to know that about themselves. Nobody wants to 
get that really underneath it all they’re really unattractive. That’s why you paid $625. Because
in here, it’s structured so you can get at that—to the degree that Jodie can be with this, and she 
“
  All I’m trying to point out is that a story is just 
a story. The “what happened,” that’s what’s 
true or not. It did or it didn’t. Mostly true.


=== END OF PAGE 126 ===

=== PAGE 127 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session One 
113
doesn’t screw it up by trying to fi x it. If all she does is just be with it, there will be a whole new 
possibility in attraction. It’ll be a diff erent thing for her. That will not be the limit of attraction.
JODIE
I’ve buried me. I’ve buried it so much, I don’t even know what’s there anymore. I don’t want to
take it out and look at it.
ERHARD (to Jodie)
That’s really very beautiful, what you saw: really extraordinary. It took me about ten years to 
get what you got overnight. What you begin to see here is that when the name of the game
is looking good, there is no self-expression. None. So whatever there is, whatever quality life 
would have, if life were self-expression, it doesn’t have that when life is looking good. And life is
looking good.
(to the group)
You aren’t going to get any clearer than she gave it to you. I’m going to talk about it a lot. But
she gave it to you real clearly.
(to Jodie)
What else?
JODIE
It all comes down to wanting to be liked. And what shows up for me in relationships and espe-
cially work relationships, I put on this story: “I don’t care if I’m liked, I want to be respected.”
ERHARD
Anybody who tells you that is full of shit. What they really mean is that they’re not sure about
being liked. They don’t know whether they can play that game. They got more confi dence about
being respected. Everybody wants to be liked. It’s nothing personal about you. It’s a rainstorm
called the already always being of human beings. And it is in the nature of being of human be-
ings to have a powerful concern for being liked. And there are endless strategies for dealing with
this powerful addiction to looking good. People who say they don’t care about being liked: if you
don’t care then why are you telling me? You didn’t say you didn’t care if I blink my eyes. Why 
did you go out of your way to say you don’t care if I like you? “Methinks the lady doth protest 
too much.” It’s not personal. Can we get that fl at now? It’s not personal. You don’t have a fuck-
ing thing to do with it, nothing. You didn’t make that up. It belongs to the already always being
of human being. You just happened to walk into the rainstorm called being a human being, and
as such you got wet by that rain. You personally want to be liked, have to be liked, need to be
liked, are addicted to being liked. But it’s nothing personal, and treating it personally is stupid
and it will make you stupid. Some people are guilty about wanting to be liked. You’re guilty of 
being a human being, that’s all. You need to know it’s an ontological phenomenon, a phenome-
non of being. And it doesn’t belong to you personally, it belongs to being human, as you do.
“
  What you begin to see here is that when the 
name of the game is looking good, there is no 
self-expression. None. So whatever there is, 
whatever quality life would have, if life were 
self-expression, it doesn’t have that when life 
is looking good. And life is looking good.


=== END OF PAGE 127 ===

=== PAGE 128 ===

114
SPEAKING BEING
While Jodie remained standing, another participant, Max, who had the story about Vietnam, stood
to speak.
MAX (visibly shaking)
I’m stuck. I’m afraid I won’t get it. I want to pay my money and have you give it to me. I don’t 
want to have to work at it. I’m really controlled by looking good. I know it controls my life.
I’m living my life for everybody else, not myself. I’m stuck and I don’t know what to do with
that right now. I’m pissed off  at myself when you asked if there was anybody who didn’t get
authenticity...
ERHARD
About being inauthentic.
MAX
I’m stuck on that. I don’t know where to go with it. I don’t understand it.
ERHARD
All right. I got it. You’re in the right place. Relax. I mean, I know you won’t relax, but you’re in 
the right place. I just read your thermometer. You’re all right.
JODIE
I’m really concerned about people liking me, but it’s not me that I’m portraying for them to like
anyway. There’s this big catch 22. I really want you to like me, but it’s not the real me anyway so
if you don’t like me, I already have an out.
ERHARD
Right. It’s very illogical. Very nutty. What’s that thing about lies and webs? “Oh what a tangled
web we weave, when fi rst we practice to deceive.” You have no idea how tangled it is. It starts 
with the fi rst lie, and the fi rst lie is: the story is true. Very powerful contribution. Thanks.
Jodie sat to applause. Wes then replaced Erhard on the platform and directed participants to engage
in a few minutes of “paired sharing—sharing with the person seated next to you what you have 
been seeing in The Forum so far today.”  Following this, he gave the group an assignment for the 
upcoming break.
WES
Have a conversation, like an inquiry, with at least one other person about your racket. I want
you to consider the possibility that you are a candy store with a racket in the back. Rackets have
t
a cost and a payoff . What are yours? Get some insight into your racket—what the payoff  is and
what it costs you. There’s a point to it that gets you something from other people and from life,
and what does that kind of way of being cost you? Get some insight into your racket. That’s the 
opportunity of the break.
The fi rst break of the day began at 12:35 pm.


=== END OF PAGE 128 ===

=== PAGE 129 ===



=== END OF PAGE 129 ===

=== PAGE 130 ===

116
SPEAKING BEING
“Proximally” is a term Heidegger uses frequently in Being and Time to characterize 
our most obvious and everyday experiences. These experiences, he says, do not 
include a perception of Being, which remains hidden, even though it constitutes 
the meaning and ground of what shows itself. Therefore, when defined by its sub-
ject-matter, “phenomenology is the science of the Being of entities—ontology” 
(BT 61). For Heidegger’s phenomenology “the thing itself” (which of course is not a 
T
thing at all) is Being.
A further complication for the phenomenological approach is that for Heide-
gger it must always be recognized as hermeneutical. Hermeneutics is the study of 
interpretation, the process by which we develop an understanding of a phenome-
non. We can never get to “the things themselves,” says Heidegger, since perception 
is always mediated by the understanding of the human being doing the perceiving,
and that understanding has always been arrived at by a process of interpretation.
Thus by defining his phenomenological method as hermeneutical, Heidegger is
including his recognition that whatever understanding he arrives at will never be the
“final” one: “For in such an inquiry, one is constantly compelled to face the possibil-
ity of disclosing an even more primordial and more universal horizon from which we 
may draw the answer to the question, “What is Being?” (BT 49). 
T
This lack of closure that characterizes a hermeneutical phenomenology is
important for both Heidegger and for the work of Werner Erhard. Heidegger’s stated
goal is to let Dasein “put itself into words for the very first time, so that it may decide 
SESSION ONE INTERVAL
Hermeneutic Phenomenology
Heidegger’s analysis of Dasein in Being and Time is based in two philosophical orien-
tations: phenomenology and hermeneutics.
Heidegger’s introduction to phenomenology as a philosophical method came 
by way of Heidegger’s mentor and colleague, Edmund Husserl, who summarized the 
approach with his famous exhortation, “To the things themselves!” In Heidegger’s 
characteristic reformulation of this approach, phenomenology means “to let that
which shows itself be seen from itself in the very way in which it shows itself from
itself” (BT 58). Both statements point to phenomenology’s fundamental purpose:
T
to set aside all previous theoretical and philosophical constructions (Husserl called
this “bracketing”), in order to bring the phenomena fully into the light.
Of course, Heidegger acknowledges, this purpose may be seen as “abundantly 
self-evident,” since it states “the underlying principle of any scientific knowledge 
whatsoever” (BT 50). And certainly phenomenology, as both a philosophical ori-
T
entation and a method of inquiry, is suff iciently flexible to have been subjected to
widely varying interpretations (see, e.g., www.phenomenologyonline.com). (Note: 
Although at the time of this 1989 Forum Werner Erhard did not present his work 
using the term “phenomenological,” his later projects, as well as the recent work of 
Landmark Worldwide, have employed this term.)
But regardless of the term’s inexactness, Heidegger is adamant that a rigorous
phenomenological inquiry can penetrate the layers of appearance and semblance
which normally impede our access to things. Heidegger’s goal in the inquiry is 
aletheia, or unconcealment, which for the early Greek philosophers was the truth of 
“pure sensory perception,” prior to any judgment or covering-up. Phenomenology 
perceives things “just by looking at them,” thereby (in a phrase employed by both
Heidegger and Werner Erhard) “letting beings be.”
Since Heidegger’s inquiry is concerned with the meaning of Being, his phenom-
enology has a specific character:
“
    What is it that by its very essence is necessarily the theme
y
whenever we exhibit something explicitly? Manifestly, it 
is something that proximally and for the most part does 
not show itself at all: it is something that lies
t
hidden, in 
contrast to that which proximally and for the most part 
does show itself; but at the same time it is something 
that belongs to what shows itself, and it belongs to it 
so essentially as to constitute its meaning and its 
ground. (BT 59)
T


=== END OF PAGE 130 ===

=== PAGE 131 ===

 
 
Forum Day Two: Session One Interval 117
of its own accord whether, as the entity which it is, it has that state of Being which 
is disclosed in this interpretation” (BT 362). But really, isn’t it more accurate to say
T
that the words into which Dasein is being put are Heidegger’s words (and likewise, 
Erhard’s words)? Heidegger is creating his own hermeneutical vocabulary here. Why 
should we accept these terms as valid?
Heidegger is not arguing that we should. He is not proposing a final truth, but 
a step on the way, and he asks that we—as ourselves Dasein—decide “of our own 
accord” whether we find value in his interpretation. This is always the way that 
thinking advances—through the development and testing of new vocabularies. In
the field of psychology, Freud invented a vocabulary to describe the behaviors he
observed in his work. He did not “discover” the ego and the id, but invented them, 
and for decades they demonstrated their validity through their use by generations of 
psychotherapists. More recently, they have been largely supplanted by other vocab-
ularies, or by psychotropic drugs; and many of Freud’s terms have taken their place
in our everyday usage, where excessive neatness is routinely characterized as “anal” 
behavior, and an inflated ego is considered as natural as a sore elbow.
Werner Erhard regularly frames his work as a new vocabulary to be consid-
ered. “We ask you not to believe anything that’s said in here,” he tells The Forum 
participants at the outset of the four days. Instead, he says on numerous occasions,
“consider the possibility,” or “stand in that theory and look at life,” or “try it on.”
¥
In the passage below, taken from an audiotaped 1986 seminar, we present an 
example of Erhard’s phenomenological approach that is quite diff erent from that
demonstrated in The Forum. This seminar is a working session, in which he is inter-
acting with Forum graduates to develop distinctions on the subject of leadership, a 
subject that Erhard has continued to develop in subsequent years into what is now
called the Being a Leader and Exercising Leadership Eff ectively Course: An Onto-
logical/Phenomenological Approach. His method here is oft en framed in a sports
metaphor, in which the ideas to be “bracketed” are characterized as the comments 
of observers (“up in the stands”), while “the things themselves” are the events as 
they are experienced by those engaged in the game (“down on the court”). 
ERHARD
What’s on the court when you’re on the court, rather than what’s on the court 
when you’re up in the stands? What’s actually there like a presence? Peter?
PETER
Me watching somebody else.
ERHARD
Okay, very good. So if we stand back from the whole thing, there was you in 
the stands watching somebody else. Now, you notice something down with 
the people you were watching, which is the comment of an observer giving an 
account. When you were giving that account, what was the guy and the gal on
the court . . . what was present?
PETER
(Silence)
ERHARD
Now let me give you a little clue about how to do this. One of the things that I 
imagine was present was somebody. Is that true? There was actually somebody
there. . . . You don’t get leadership on an empty court. . . .  So this is kind of 
obvious, but at least it’s a place to start: that leadership as a presence is people.
Okay. So what else is there, like a presence? People, we got that much. What
else, like a presence, is present?
PETER
There’s action.
ERHARD
Okay, but what action? Okay, let’s just stay with that. There’s action. So leader-
ship as a presence presences itself as action. People in action. . . .
PETER
So all I have is a description of it, an observation.
ERHARD
Good. Now I want you to get down there on the court and tell me what’s there. 
So far what you’ve got down there is people in action.
PETER
So there’s . . . commitment.


=== END OF PAGE 131 ===

=== PAGE 132 ===

118
SPEAKING BEING
PETER
Anything I can think of is a description.
ERHARD
Yeah, it’s okay. That’s right. And every time you say it, I’m going to say that’s a
description, and what’s underneath that? Why? Because—you know, I’m going 
to say this a thousand times today, I can feel it coming—because it’s the inquiry 
where the power is, not the information you derive from the inquiry. Look, 
we’ve invented a new technology. We’ve invented a technology called ontologi-
cal inquiry. Really, that’s wrong. We’ve invented a technology called ontological
design. The way you do ontological design is like Peter and I are doing it: “May-
be it’s this. But how could it be that? What’s underneath that? Well, underneath
that is this. Okay, but how could it be that? What’s underneath that?” And
somehow, if Peter and I are doing it correctly, when we’re all done, neither of us 
will know anything we didn’t know before, but life will be an opening for that
into which we’ve inquired. So Peter and I will find ourselves, not remembering
what to do to be leaders, or not remembering what property we need to have 
to be leaders, but rather we will find ourselves being leaders. . . . Because I say
that a well-designed, rigorous inquiry, while not leading to answers, while not
leading to information, while not leading necessarily to understanding, leads to
an opening, like a possibility, like a clearing, for that into which I’m inquiring.
ERHARD
No. Can’t see commitment. It’s not a presence. I don’t mean you can’t see it, 
therefore it’s not a presence, but I’m trying to kind of engage you into: how do 
you inquire into presence? So is commitment ever present? No, that’s always a 
conversation, an assessment about what’s going on there. . . . What’s actually 
going on there?
PETER
I don’t know.
ERHARD
Try this: something about unrestrained action? Maybe something like unre-
strained action, maybe something like consistent action? Maybe something like
repetitive action, maybe something like action powerful enough to meet a resis-
tance? I don’t know. See, I don’t know, and I don’t care about the answer! What 
I care about is establishing ourselves in the domain of leadership as a presence. 
That’s what this is all about. It’s a trick. This is not really to get the answer. We’re
not going to give you a test to see if you got the answers right aft erwards. . . .
PETER
It’s action without concern.
ERHARD
Okay. Good. Now, what does concern mean? See, no matter what he says, I’m
going to have a question, aren’t I? Why? Because I don’t care about the answer!


=== END OF PAGE 132 ===

=== PAGE 133 ===



=== END OF PAGE 133 ===

=== PAGE 134 ===

120
SPEAKING BEING
Erhard was on the platform as the second session began at 1:15 pm.
ERHARD
So I’m willing to tell you The Answer now. You’re not going to like the answer. What you get
after sitting on a mountaintop for twenty years—what you get is—the answer is that there
isn’t any answer: and that is The Answer. Somewhere on the third day that will fall into place
for you. What we want to do is distinguish a racket. The problem is that you don’t know what 
distinguishing is. First we need to distinguish distinction. When you and I distinguish some-
thing, it’s not the same as defi ning it. Distinguishing and defi ning are two diff erent operations.
And distinguishing is not describing. When you distinguish something you are not describing it.
What is it that defi ning does? When you defi ne something, what does that do for you?
PARTICIPANT
You set up a boundary, or a limit.
ERHARD
Right on. When you defi ne something, what you do is to take a mass of undefi ned stuff , and
you draw a kind of line that divides what you’re defi ning from what you’re not defi ning. Also, 
defi ning indicates something with reference to something else, something you’re not familiar 
with in relation to something you are familiar with. Distinguishing doesn’t work like that.
Defi ning objectifi es something. When you defi ne something you turn it into an object. Defi ning 
gives it a form, a location in space and time, turns it into a thing. And we’re all comfortable with
things. When you distinguish you don’t turn it into an object. And that’s why distinguishing
makes people uncomfortable. Because while it exists by virtue of being distinguished, it doesn’t
exist as a thing. 
(pausing)
So we’re going to take a little bit of a look at what distinguishing might be. Defi ning identifi es; 
distinguishing sets up a realm. You don’t need to understand that yet. Just have it like, “He says
distinguishing sets up a realm.” 2, and 9, and 74 are numbers. But number is not itself a num-
r
ber. It’s a realm in which numbers can happen. Number distinguishes a realm of possibility.
Erhard called on a participant to stand up.
ERHARD (to participant)t
How many loops in one square foot of rug?
 PARTICIPANT
A couple thousand.
ERHARD
You know exactly how many: a lot. If I take one loop away, how many are there? The exact same
number. The number is called a lot. We can’t distinguish between that number and that number 
minus one. A lot minus one is still a lot. You have no way to see the diff erence between a lot and
FORUM DAY TWO: 
SESSION TWO


=== END OF PAGE 134 ===

=== PAGE 135 ===

 
 
Forum Day Two: Session Two 
121
a lot minus one. Conceptually they’re diff erent, but conceptually the world is fl at. We’re talking 
about the way the rug occurs for you. Similarly, we’re told that there are cultures, societies, in 
which the number system goes up to seven.
(holding up eight fi ngers)
That would look like many.
(holding up nine fi ngers)
So would that.
(to the group)
You’ve got to get this, you see. This is one of those things you’ve got to get. Now we’re going to talk 
about two... like t-w-o. Pretend you’re in a culture with no numbers at all. You’ve got only none, 
one, and many.
(holding up two sheets of paper)r
If I said that was two, you’d say, “All right.”
(holding up two rulers)
If I said that’s two, you’d say, “okay.”
He continued, holding up two erasers, then two fi ngers, each time responding with increasing cer-
tainty as the imaginary tribesperson—until he held up one ruler
and one eraser.
ERHARD (continuing)
Can you see that you’d say, “I don’t know”? Two diff erent things would not occur for you as
t
“two.” However, after a few examples of diff erent things as two, you would eventually get that.
(holding up two things in one hand and one thing in the other)r
A new level to get, which would again require demonstration by examples. Then another new 
level.
(holding up one fi nger)r
A set and an empty set. You’d never get this as two. No set of examples, however large, ever 
distinguishes two. It only describes or defi nes two. You can’t invent new twos when you’ve just
got a defi nition of two. When you distinguish two, what you do is create a realm of possibility
in which things can occur, arise, as two. You can’t ever invent without a distinction. Defi nitions
limit, distinctions open up. What you are doing when you are distinguishing is creating, open-
ing up a context in which what you are distinguishing can occur, can happen. Is that starting 
to get clear? What you’re doing now is very diff erent. You are distinguishing distinction. That’s a
little bit like putting your hands underneath your feet and lifting yourself up.
PARTICIPANT
How would you distinguish two?
THINKING 
The kind of thinking that Martin Heidegger was distinguishing in
his writing has not been available for human beings. We can’t think
this way because this way of thinking has not yet been thought 
as a possibility, and therefore it is none of the things which 
already-thought ideas always are: understandable, consistent
within themselves, or consistent with our other thoughts. It is not
yet already-available for assertion or evaluation. It must first be
unconcealed.
Heidegger’s first step in bringing forth this unthought think-
ing is to distinguish our current thinking as “our current thinking”
rather than simply as “thinking.” Essential to an inquiry into the 
possibility of thinking, Heidegger says, is an inquiry into what 
thinking is for us now: what we presently think about thinking,
what we presently define as thinking, and—since our thinking
gives us our being—what we are that thinking is (WCT 17). We must
T
begin to think the diff erence between the possibility of thinking
and whatever it is that we are doing now in the name of thinking,
so that the diff erence becomes the opening for the possibility. The 
development of this distinction—a new way of thinking—is central
to Werner Erhard’s work, as it is to Heidegger’s; therefore we will 
mention here several of the ways in which Heidegger characterizes
the thinking he is attempting.


=== END OF PAGE 135 ===

=== PAGE 136 ===

122
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
We’ll get to that. Here’s what I want you to get fi rst. Distinguishing establishes a domain of possi-
bility, is making possible, not giving form to, but making form possible; very important to get that 
diff erence. Be in this conversation: distinction or distinguishing is an operation unlike defi ning, ex-
plaining. It does not lead to understanding. You do not understand two when you have distinguished 
two. Distinction is an action which leads to power, because it creates possibility, which is freedom.
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader
(
)r
What is the diff erence between occurring and distinguishing?
ERHARD
Occurring happens in a realm distinguished. There are cultures in which, we are told, if you 
show people a photographic image they don’t see it. These people, by the way, survive an 
environment you would die in, so they’re probably not stupid. There’s no image on the paper 
or in your brain. These cultures have never generated the possibility “photographic image,”
and so they see splotches on the paper. If you explain it to them, they don’t see an image but a 
representation of an image. Where does the image happen? It happens in the distinction “pho-
tographic image.” In that domain of possibility arises “photographic image.”
”
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader
(
)r
I would like you to tease this out for me a bit more. Using the example, when you’re distin-
guishing two with any objects, and then it now occurs as two. So when you give me examples of 
that, the occurrence now is determining how it occurs for me.
ERHARD
No. The defi nition is determining its occurring. 
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader
(
)r
So it’s a concept.
ERHARD
Yeah. And what you get is a conceptually driven occurring. And isn’t that the way you learned 
mathematics? You weren’t creative or generative in mathematics. Mathematicians learn math at
the level of distinctions, not at the level of defi nition. Consequently, they invent numbers. They 
are not limited by arithmetic; they are freed by arithmetic, because arithmetic is constituted
by distinctions not by defi nitions. Arithmetic is not conceptual for them. Art is conceptual for
most people. Artists don’t generate art conceptually. If they do, that’s not art. That’s handicraft, 
not art. You can’t create out of concepts, defi nitions. Dancers don’t dance out of explanations of 
dance. They generate it out of a domain of possibility in which they can invent forms. What’s 
present when a dancer is dancing is an occurring allowed by the possibility, not an occurring
allowed by the conception. You start doing the same thing over and over again when your art is
reduced to a concept. That’s painting by the numbers.
Fundamentally, this thinking is a response to an appeal. The
appeal arises from the wavering in appearance of Being, from its 
tendency in the act of appearing to disappear. “Nature loves to 
hide,” says the common translation of a fragment of Heraclitus,
the pre-Socratic Greek thinker (Wheelwright 70), which Heidegger 
retranslates to emphasize his reading of physis (pronounced foo’-
sis): “Being (emerging appearance) intrinsically inclines toward 
self-concealment” (IM 126). Thus the essential—Being, that which
must be thought—turns away. Being withdraws. And although
Heidegger acknowledges that for contemporary humans this with-
drawal is now almost unnoticed, nevertheless as beings, we are. 
Therefore at some level we are always turned toward that missing 
aspect of our existence:
 What withdraws from us, draws us along by its
very withdrawal, whether or not we become
aware of it immediately, or at all. Once we are
drawn into the withdrawal, we are drawing
toward what draws, attracts us by its with-
drawal. And once we, being so attracted, are 
drawing toward what draws us, our essential
nature already bears the stamp of “drawing
toward.” (WCT 9)
“
This is the exigence in the background of our lives. We are drawn 
toward the ongoing concealment of Being, and in being so drawn 
we find ourselves pointing in its direction: “We are who we are by 
pointing in that direction—not like an incidental adjunct but as . . . 
an essential and therefore constant pointing toward what with-
draws” (WCT 9, emphasis added).
T
The way to draw toward that which withdraws is through
y
thinking, since “Being in general gets interpreted on the basis of 
thinking” (IM 129), but not in the ordinary way we understand
thinking. To think is “to lend a hand to the essence, the coming to 
presence, of Being” (“TT” in QCT 40). When we are thinking we are
T
looking and drawing toward what withdraws: “Whenever man is
properly drawing that way, he is thinking—even though he may 
still be far away from what withdraws, even though the withdrawal 


=== END OF PAGE 136 ===

=== PAGE 137 ===

 
 
Forum Day Two: Session Two 
123
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader
(
)r
So occurrence can be constitutive of distinguishing?
ERHARD
No. The other way around and constitutive is not the right word. Allowed by is better. Occur-
ring is allowed by the distinction in which it occurs. The occurring is possible by virtue of the
domain of possibility which you have established. For instance, the photographic image doesn’t 
occur in the brain or in the eyes. Those were operational before. The occurring happens in a 
“house called possibility.” Possibility is a product of an operation called distinguishing.
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader
(
)r
Thank you.
ANOTHER PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 2
(
)
I have a sense that there’s an architecture, or whatever word you want to use, so that in order 
to objectify something, you have to be able to locate it, someplace, sometime, some form, some 
architecture for defi nition. Is there an architecture for distinguishing?
ERHARD
I’m not clear about your use of the word architecture.
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 2
(
)
Anatomy or elements.
ERHARD
At one end of the spectrum is design, at the other end is making. Anatomy is at the making 
end. What’s up at the design end, mostly lives in what will remain unsaid. Although present by 
virtue of... all that...
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 2
(
)
Is it possible to elevate or transform a concept to a distinction, and create a possibility?
ERHARD
That’s moving from anatomy to design. When you deal with distinction, with design, there’s
something inherently satisfying about that. There’s something inherently satisfying in master-
ing something, and mastery and distinction are synonymous.
(to the group)
Whatever it is, what are you going to use it for? To look good. The problem is, you can’t use dis-
tinctions. Distinctions use you, you don’t use them. Distinctions give you. Not many people own 
a yellow car, right?  Buy a yellow car and see how many yellow cars you see. We’re developing
occurring as a new distinction. You got
g
is.
may be as veiled as ever” (WCT 17). Therefore Heidegger says of 
T
Socrates: “All through his life and right up to his death, Socrates
did nothing else than place himself into this draft , this current, and
maintain himself in it. That is why he is the purest thinker of the 
West” (WCT 17).
T
The relationship of thinking to Being is easily conceived in
familiar Cartesian terms: “Being is the objective, the object. Think-
ing is the subjective, the subject. The relation of thinking to Being
is that of subject to object” (IM 150). Such a conception, however,
keeps us stuck in one of the primary dualities of metaphysical
thought. Heidegger finds an alternative view in a fragment from 
the Greek thinker Parmenides: to gar auto noein estin te kai einai, 
which has been translated, traditionally and (says Heidegger) inad-
equately, as “thinking and Being are the same” (IM 152). In fact, the 
relation between thinking and Being is much subtler than simple
“identity,” and it is the development of the nature of this relation 
which is at the center of Heidegger’s later thought. In Werner 
Erhard’s work, this relation is explored persistently in the dialogue
of The Forum.
Heidegger emphasizes that the way to thinking is not think-
ing about thinking, a practice that has flourished in the West as
t
“logic” (WCT 21). Nor, even more fundamentally, is it the kind of 
T
thinking which Nietzsche called “blinking,” the formation of ideas
which “present and propose of everything only the glitter, only the
appearance of surfaces and foreground facets” (WCT 82).
T
Merely having thoughts, for Heidegger, is “idea forming,” 
and not at all what is involved in true thinking: “We understand, 
of course, and consider it the most obvious thing in the world, 
when someone says, ‘I think the matter is such and such,’ and 
with it has in mind, ‘I have such and such an idea of the matter’”
(WCT 45). But we have not yet really thought what is involved
T
in idea-forming. That is, we have thought of “idea forming”
as “thinking,” but we have not yet thought of idea-forming as
idea-forming, that is, as a distinct mode of thinking. Thus we
have not thought something which is determinative of our very
existence:


=== END OF PAGE 137 ===

=== PAGE 138 ===

124
SPEAKING BEING
THEODORE
How do you distinguish something without defi ning it?
ERHARD
Yeah. We’re going to get to that. 
THEODORE
I got something about looking good. In being here I want this to be successful, and one of my 
fears is not looking good, going home and seeing that nothing happened.
ERHARD
You’re not free and that will keep something from happening. So when you’re willing to be with 
one of the possible outcomes–that nothing will happen–then you’re in a place where something
can happen to you. You see how strange that sounds? By being willing to have nothing happen
you are in a place where something can happen. Thanks.
(Theodore sits down)
Distinction is an operation in language. In the normal course of events, you and I think of 
language as something we use to report on something. Language is for talking
t
about. It’s for
abouting. Describing and explaining are operations in language called reporting. We think that 
there’s something out there that has a particular way it is, and I make a representation of it. And 
if my representation is accurate, I can make it work. But now we’re distinguishing a new kind 
of operation in language. It’s an operation in language called generating. It’s as though I said
“chair” and a chair came out of my mouth. Watch. You’re going to see this thing fall out of my 
mouth as I say it: I promise. When I said “promise,” what fell out of my mouth was a promise. 
When I say “I promise,” that’s a promise, isn’t it? What falls out of my mouth when I say “I 
promise”? A promise. When I say “I promise,” a promise falls out of my mouth. All I want you to 
see is there’s possibility in language that didn’t occur to you, because you hadn’t distinguished 
language as a generative act. So we’re sneaking up on the answer to the question: what is the
operation by which one distinguishes? Not an operation in language like reporting, but creating.
Listen up. Apes are not stupid. But no ape has ever picked up a stick along a path because he
needed to knock down bananas. Why not? Because apes live in a world with no possibility; be-
cause they live without language. And I don’t mean laboratory apes. Laboratory apes are tainted 
with language.
LOUISE
What about the hundredth monkey?
ERHARD
It’s totally false, that example. It’s bullshit, and demonstrated to be so. The author has acknowl-
edged that he wrote that to make a point. Lyall-Watson recanted that as scientifi c evidence. I
want to stop hearing that crap about the hundredth monkey.
That is, idea-forming shapes us, and thus “the essence of 
idea-forming is probably the first thing that must be put into 
the language of thinking” (WCT 55). This is the first step in the
T
appropriation of our current way of thinking: the recognition
and taking-over of that thinking, which is necessary before we 
can attain a possibility beyond it.
This aspect of Heidegger’s thinking has been central through-
out its evolution, emerging in various iterations, from the reso-
luteness of Dasein in Being and Time to the gentler releasement 
of his later work. It is also a central element in Werner Erhard’s
methodology. Both men posit the paradoxical idea that, rather 
than resisting those aspects of ourselves that we see as in some
way problematic, we let them be, and own them, and thereby gain
a freedom to think beyond them. The idea is fundamental to the 
transformation that both men are working to make available. ■
One might say, for instance: “I think it will 
snow tonight.” But he who speaks that way is
not thinking, he just has views on something.
We must be very careful, however, not to 
regard this “viewing” as insignificant. All our 
daily life and all we do moves within what we 
have in view, and necessarily so. (WCT 32)
“


=== END OF PAGE 138 ===

=== PAGE 139 ===

 
 
Forum Day Two: Session Two 
125
LOUISE (continuing to object)t
Apes and dogs have language. So do rocks.
ERHARD
If everything’s got language there’s nothing to talk about, because nothing’s distinguished.
LOUISE
They are diff erent languages.
ERHARD
You’re making yourself stupid. You’re a fucking Californian. It’s that hundredth monkey shit. 
You denigrate the great mysteries when you turn them into crap. Apes don’t have language. It’s
true that apes signal. But they don’t communicate. Rocks bump into each other, and animals 
have a fancy form of bumping. But animals don’t have language, they have signals. Whatever it 
is we’re distinguishing with the word language, it’s what human beings do. Apes don’t dwell in 
possibility. To dwell in possibility you’ve got to have what I call language. I’m asserting some-
thing, and you can’t prove an assertion. You can disprove an assertion but you can’t prove it.
You can validate an assertion, and there’s a lot of evidence for that one. You can move without 
language. Rocks move all the time. One distinguishes by an operation in language in which pos-
sibility is generated. And it’s generated by speaking and listening, and by what’s present without
being said by virtue of what is said. Let me give you an example.
(addressing The Forum Supervisor)r
Julie, give me some water please? She doesn’t come up and throw a bucket of water on me.
(to the group)
Where the hell is “in a bucket” or “in a glass”? It’s not in your brain. It’s in the conversation. 
One of the possibilities in the domain of possibility called language is possibility itself. Two was 
distinguished in the conversation we had for distinguishing distinction.
(moving to the chalkboard and drawing a series of marks)
Is this two?
LOUISE
It’s two.
(grouping the marks with two enclosing outlines)
Now it occurs as two. Two is there if you’ve got the possibility “two.” There’s an infi nite number 
of ways to make that “two.”
LOUISE
But how do you do it?
ERHARD
It arises in language. Do you know how to ride a bicycle?
One distinguishes by an operation in language 
in which possibility is generated. And it’s 
generated by speaking and listening, and by 
what’s present without being said by virtue of 
what is said.
“


=== END OF PAGE 139 ===

=== PAGE 140 ===

126
SPEAKING BEING
LOUISE
Yes.
ERHARD
How did you learn?
LOUISE
Just started to go and then discovered that my dad was not behind me.
ERHARD
That’s the story they say. But let me tell you how it happened. When you fi rst sit on a bicycle 
all the sensations are the same. They all feel the same: they’re all falling. At some point some 
sensations are falling and other sensations are not. They’re the same sensations you had when
you fi rst sat on the bicycle, but now some of them occur as falling and some as not falling. That 
happens when the distinction balance is distinguished as a possibility. Now your father told 
you, “you’ve got to balance. And balance is up like this.” That didn’t help. It all still felt like 
falling. When the distinction balance is distinguished—not conceptualized—then some of the 
sensations start to occur as balance, as not falling. 
(pausing
(
)
There are no twelve easy steps to distinguishing. If you’re willing to engage in the conversation
there’s a possibility of distinguishing there. Distinction arises in the conversation. You just can’t
see conversation. Very useful conversation. Thank you.
ANOTHER PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 3
(
)
When you said “I promise,” a promise falls out of your mouth; if I had listened to you promise 
twenty times and not keep your promise, then when you said the word “promise,” a promise
wouldn’t fall out of your mouth, just the word “promise” would.
ERHARD
Yeah. If you don’t keep your promise repeatedly, you create a no-possibility listening for promis-
ing, so that what falls out of your mouth is the word. So the possibility lives in the conversation. 
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 3
(
)
So the sacredness of a promise can only live in a conversation.
ERHARD
Yeah. And one of the things that fucks it up brutally is that bullshit about sincerity. Disgusting.
We’ll get to that before The Forum is over.
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 3
(
)
The other thing. When I say I hate you, what could fall out of my mouth is hate or...


=== END OF PAGE 140 ===

=== PAGE 141 ===

 
 
Forum Day Two: Session Two 
127
ERHARD
Watch out or we’re going to get too far ahead into The Forum.
ANOTHER PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 4
(
)
In mapping this conversation onto an area of my life where I have a rich body of distinctions,
things like skiing or leading The Forum, or being with my kids. Looking at my kids’ develop-
ment. It seems like there are three things in the conversation for distinguishing distinction. I
wanted to see if I’m tracking with it. One is that it’s almost entirely in what is unsaid. What’s 
said is almost only because something needs to be said for there to be an unsaid.  The second is
that action is a necessary component.
ERHARD
Yeah, that would be misunderstood at this point. You can have an action in language too.
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 4
(
)
The spoken conversation doesn’t necessarily need to be about what’s being distinguished.
ERHARD
That’s right. That’s what I read from Heidegger about leaving it the realm of the unsaid. Like in 
the Karate Kid.
ANOTHER PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 5
(
)
I had participation as a defi nition, and it shifted over to a distinction. I started to listen diff erent-
ly. When you talked about being used by a distinction, two things happened. I recalled a movie I
saw called The Gods Must Be Crazy. There was no Coke bottle for them, but I get that there was
no not-Coke bottle for me. I’m here for a breakthrough in my commitment in my relationship 
with my children and my wife. I’ve used up the context for my family.
 ERHARD
Listen up here. You create a possibility for your family and when you use up that possibility,
and wonder where the juice went: What’s missing may not be more and better content. What’s 
missing may be a new opening, a new possibility.
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 5
(
)
And I could see that the conversation for extending the single dimension. There’s a new demand
for myself for generating distinction.
ERHARD
Something extraordinary opens up with a new realm of distinction. It’s not additive. It’s unrelat-
ed to what it was before. No persistence of the old.
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 5
(
)
So now this isn’t news—the power of distinction—see I had that as a defi nition distinct from
HEIDEGGER’S PEDAGOGY
Here, despite the aff inities we are proposing between the thinking 
of Heidegger and the work of Werner Erhard, we call attention to a 
fundamental diff erence in the nature of their work. This diff erence 
lies in the rhetorical form of their communication. In The Forum, the
model is not orator and audience, a commonplace view of rhetoric. 
Rather, The Forum’s form, elements of which have emerged in the 
various perspectives expressed in this book, is rhetorical dialogue, a 
strategic transaction which has as its aim the inclusion of the dialogic 
participants in the disclosive experience itself. Preservation, in this 
model, stands in a diff erent relationship to disclosure: it becomes the 
dwelling-within the work by those who have themselves participated 
in the disclosive and creative act of communication. 


=== END OF PAGE 141 ===

=== PAGE 142 ===

128
SPEAKING BEING
distinguishing distinction. And then I saw that there’s a particular relationship that I’ve adopted. 
I don’t see the incident, but I’ve got an already always listening, a new one I hadn’t seen before: 
“this is theirs, not mine.” I can see now that’s been using my life. There’s an opening.
ERHARD
When you can see “it’s theirs, not mine,” then there’s a possibility beyond “it’s theirs, not mine.” 
When you keep avoiding it, there is no possibility.
KYLE
What is the diff erence between diff erence and distinction?
ERHARD
Distinction is not dependent upon relationship, and diff erence is. Something that’s diff erent
is dependent upon that from which it is diff erent. I don’t see photons, I see people, although
what’s out there are photons. I don’t see with my eyes. I see with my mouth. That is to say, I 
see with language. Things occur as they occur because of language. What distinguishing is, is
to take something like an undiff erentiated mass and to bring forth from that mass a realm of 
possibility. Distinction gives existence. It makes existence possible. Distinctions aren’t depen-
dent on. They are kind of, of themselves. The eff ectiveness of someone who can deal from the
whole—and all that means is having the distinction—is very diff erent from someone who has 
all the parts.
(Kyle sits down)
Why we had this whole discussion: so we can distinguish racket—so your racket occurs for 
you as a racket. So that you’re not looking around for what fi ts the defi nition. I want it to show 
up for you as a presence. I’m going to distinguish a racket. A racket’s got to be something that
you’re protesting, saying you don’t want to be doing or being. Something you wish you weren’t
doing, or trying not to do it. Like let’s say you’re being stupid. It’s not a racket if you say listen, 
I’m being stupid on purpose, I get a lot out of being stupid. See when I’m stupid I don’t have to 
be responsible for anything. That’s not a racket. A racket is where you are like, “I wish I wasn’t
so stupid!” That’s when it’s a racket. A racket has got to be something you’re doing or being that 
you are protesting or resisting or that you don’t want to do or be. That’s what makes it a racket. 
And what’s driving it is the payoff . You’re getting something out of being stupid—that’s your 
racket. Like, “my family walks all over me, and I don’t want them to do that.” There’s a protest 
there. Then what’s the payoff ? I get to feel sorry for myself. “Oh I see: that’s a racket.” What’s 
driving you to be a way that your family walks all over you is the payoff  you get for having your 
family walk all over you. And then there’s a cost. There are three elements to a racket. You’re
doing or being something that you’re protesting or resisting, but you’re still doing it. It’s persist-
ing and you’re protesting the persistence. The second element is the payoff . It’s the payoff  which 
drives the racket. Rackets are not habits. Take the payoff  away, the racket disappears immediate-
ly. Being cranky is not a habit. Brushing your teeth is a habit. Pull all your teeth out, you’d brush
your teeth about three days. The payoff s are invariant and the costs are also always the same. 
Someone give me an example.
The scholar John Anderson has observed that throughout his
work, Martin Heidegger is “urging his hearers and readers toward 
a kind of transmutation of themselves. . .” (DT 12). Ronald Bruzina
locates this transmutation in a surrender to the direction of Heide-
gger’s thinking: 
Heidegger is not attempting to formulate a 
position, but rather to execute a movement. If 
we realize now that this “movement” he exe-
cutes is not only always in language, but also
in a highly original and strange kind of word-
ing, then we are close to seeing that this very 
immersion in a wording movement constitutes
thinking. (Ronald Bruzina, “Heidegger on the
Metaphor and Philosophy” 197)
“
Heidegger himself claimed that this direction of movement 
requires a transformation, which “occurs as a passage. . . in which 
one site is left  behind in favor of another. . . and that requires that
the sites be placed in discussion” (“DL” in OWL 42).
The critical element in this process was the passage. This point 
was made again at the beginning of the lecture series later published 
as On Time and Being, when Heidegger instructed his students on
the way of listening they should bring to the lectures in order that the 
intended transformation might be achieved: “Let me give a little hint 
on how to listen,” he said. “The point is not to listen to a series of prop-
ositions, but rather to follow the movement of showing” (OTB 2).
At the same time, Heidegger recognized the limitations of the 
lecture format for achieving the transformation he sought. In con-
cluding this same lecture series, he acknowledged that “the form of a 
lecture remains itself an obstacle. . . . The lecture has spoken merely in 
propositional statements” (OTB 24). Neither, he suggested elsewhere, 
is a “scientific dissertation” an appropriate medium for an inquiry into
language and Being, since “the movement of the questioning that is
called for here might too easily congeal” (“DL” in OWL 50, emphasis
added). Nor, he added, can “a transformation” be “established as the 
consequence of an accumulation of the results of philosophical re-
search” (“DL” in OWL 42). For Heidegger as for Erhard, transformation 
was a gestalt switch from one site of understanding to another, a leap.
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 5; continuing
(
)


=== END OF PAGE 142 ===

=== PAGE 143 ===

 
 
Forum Day Two: Session Two 
129
MARY
I don’t want to follow the rules.
ERHARD
Are you up front about not wanting to follow the rules?
MARY
Yes.
ERHARD
Then it’s not a racket. So, let’s say we’re going to have a relationship. I’m going to be up front 
that I’m not going to follow the rules. Fine. No racket.
MARY
Are you saying it’s hidden?
ERHARD
It’s just not a racket if you’re up front about it. So if I say, hey Wes, I want to follow the rules in
the relationship, and I try to, but I just can’t do it. It’s not hidden, just something you’re protest-
ing. Something you’re resisting. If you’re doing what you want to do and saying that you don’t 
want to do it, and you’re doing it to get the payoff , that’s the racket.
ANOTHER PARTICIPANT
My racket is sitting still, not participating.
ERHARD
And he wants to stand up and participate, except he doesn’t, but he wants to. One more 
example.
ANOTHER PARTICIPANT
I say I am a partner with my husband, but I do things unilaterally.
ERHARD
Right, good. We’ll get into more examples, but fi rst I want to talk about the payoff s. If you’re 
unhappy about something in your life, unhappiness is invariably a racket because there’s some-
thing that you are that you don’t want to be. Nobody wants to be unhappy. What’s the payoff ? 
“Well there’s no payoff , it’s just terrible. I’m unhappy.” No, no. There’s a fucking payoff  in there. 
And the payoff  is...
(Kipp writing on the board: the three elements of a racket: Protest Payoff  Cost)
You’re protesting, but it persists... When you go home tonight and start to run your racket, 
I want it to be present for you like a racket, not like some fucking soap opera about “you’re
unhappy”; present for you more like “I’m that way because I’m getting something out of it. And
While Heidegger was committed to a transformation of 
his students’ thinking about Being, he did not engage them as 
individuals in a dialogue about the possibility of this transforma-
tion in their own lives—that is, in their own Being-in-the-world. 
Heidegger’s student Gadamer has commented in an interview with 
Ansgar Kemmann that Heidegger’s lectures, while astonishing in
their eff ects, were not explicit exchanges with his audience. In fact,
Gadamer has suggested that Heidegger’s relentless dedication to 
the communication of his ideas, in many ways so gripping, actually 
worked against his ability to engage the students in mutual con-
versation (“Heidegger as Rhetor” in HR 50).
An example of Heidegger’s pedagogical inquiry, consistent with 
Gadamer’s observation, is given in Medard Boss’s account of Heide-
gger’s 1958 seminars at the Psychiatric University Clinic in Zurich. 
Says Boss: “Only the participants of those first seminars are able 
to estimate what endless eff ort it cost until his medical listeners,
trained solely in natural science, began to even suspect what Heide-
gger was trying to say” (Heidegger and Psychology 10). The following
y
exchange is a fragment from the transcript of one of the seminars. 
Heidegger: What is distance?
Listener E: A definition of space.
Heidegger: What then is space as such?
(Ten long minutes of silence. . .)
 Listener F: We have never heard such questions
and do not know what you regard as important,
what you want to hear, what you want to say.
 Heidegger: I am only concerned that you open
your eyes and do not immediately dim and dis-
tort your vision once more with artificial sup-
positions or theoretical explanations. How is it,
then, with this matter that you have called an 
interval of space?
(Seven minutes of silence. . .). 
(Heidegger and Psychology 10–11)
“


=== END OF PAGE 143 ===

=== PAGE 144 ===

130
SPEAKING BEING
it’s costing me something.” And I want that to arise whenever you run your racket. I don’t want
you to take some stupid notes and try to remember that. What you do about running your rack-
et is none of my business. My business is that when you leave here and you run your racket, it’s 
gonna show up like your racket. And you and I are gonna have a conversation till we got racket
distinguished powerfully enough so that when you run it, it shows up like “this is my racket.” 
Clear? Stand up. Wait for the mic. Relax!
(laughter)r
ANGEL (to the group)
He’s assuming I’m not relaxed.
(to Erhard)
I am uncomfortable with calling my unhappiness over my divorce a racket.
ERHARD
Yes, you’re fucking divorced.
ANGEL
It invalidates the fact that it hurts.
ERHARD
You’re fucking divorced.
ANGEL
It’s not a racket. It hurts.
ERHARD
You’re fucking divorced. It didn’t hurt. That is a fucking racket.
ANGEL
The word racket makes it sound like...
ERHARD
No I said fucking racket...
ANGEL
Fucking racket makes it sound like it’s not real.
ERHARD
It’s as real as any soap opera ever got.
We can assume that the students in Heidegger’s philosophy classes
would have been more responsive. Yet the transcript suggests 
that Heidegger, accustomed to the one-way communication form 
of the lecture, seems not to have been practiced in prompting
dialogue. ■
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 144 ===

=== PAGE 145 ===

 
 
Forum Day Two: Session Two 
131
ANGEL
But when I hurt over it, it’s not my decision to hurt over it.
ERHARD
Horseshit! Angel, listen up. When you walk out of here tonight, you are not going to be carrying
your divorce around with you. 
ANGEL
I’ve had it for a long time.
(laughter)r
ERHARD
Wait. Wait. Listen to me. 
(holding a director’s chair and dragging it across the stage, to laughter)r
See this is what you look like. And you wonder why are people looking at you funny. “What the
hell are they looking at? I don’t see anything funny.”
ANGEL
But that’s not my racket. I already picked out my racket.
ERHARD
Wait. Wait. Wait. You’re not a woman, you’re a woman who was divorced...
ANGEL
Twice.
(loud laughter)
ERHARD
Yeah, when you walk out of here, you won’t be carrying around your divorces anymore.
ANGEL
Are you telling me I won’t hurt about them anymore?
ERHARD
What hurts about them is carrying them around. Getting divorced does not hurt. 
ANGEL
Yes it does.


=== END OF PAGE 145 ===

=== PAGE 146 ===

132
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
No it doesn’t. And you’re a fucking racketeer and you’ve been carrying those goddamned di-
vorces around, and the pain, for the payoff . And after Kipp gets this distinguished when we get
back, you and I will have a little conversation. But we’ve got the ground established clearly. Do 
we not? Look, you’re so frightened of losing that racket it’s got you really upset. You’re going to
be a real wrong lady when we’re done with the conversation. You will have spent years in pain 
for nothing. You’re going to lose that whole justifi cation after being in pain. You’ll also lose all 
that baggage you’ve been carrying around.
ANGEL
All that pain makes it worth something.
ERHARD
Ahhh. Emerging racket. Listen. There is a payoff . Yeah, you got to justify what happened. That’s 
one of the payoff s. Self-justifi cation. Listen. I want you to be upset. I want you to be bothered. 
I want you to stay that way until we talk after the break again. And I intend to insult you and
make you feel bad.
ANGEL
Thank you.
ERHARD
You’re welcome.
(laughter)r
Yeah, and I’m insulting you and making you feel bad because you are your divorces. And I have 
no respect for your divorces. No respect for the story and no respect for the soap opera. And I 
can’t fi nd any of you to respect there. Once we get some of you up, then I’ll have some respect.
Not insult. I’m insulting that crap.
ANGEL
There are a lot of people who respect me for my divorces, and my story about my divorces. 
ERHARD
For certain, or you wouldn’t still be doing it otherwise. No one infl icts pain on themselves.
ANGEL
Then why are you accusing me of infl icting pain on myself?
ERHARD
Because you are. You’re listening to this like it’s your fault. I didn’t say it was your fault.
SOLICITUDE OF A FORUM LEADER
In Heideggerian terms, the Forum leader’s way of Being-with-The-
Forum participants is characterized as extreme positive solicitude.
Solicitude is Heidegger’s term for Dasein’s way of Be-
ing-with-Others who are themselves Dasein—that is, other human
beings. This is distinct from how Heidegger understands concern,
which indicates our way of being toward Things, or present-at-
hand entities (please see the sidebar “Concern” in Session Four of 
Day One). Solicitude is an existentiale, which is to say, an aspect of 
Dasein’s Being. “Thus in concernful solicitude the Other is proxi-
mally disclosed” (BT 161).
T
Throughout Being and Time, Heidegger introduces charac-
teristics of Dasein as occurring in various ways or “modes,” which 
indicate that the characteristic generally shows up to a greater or 
lesser degree, or in some cases not at all. Describing this feature of 
Heidegger’s work, the book’s translators, John Macquarrie and Ed-
ward Robinson, comment: “It is as if zero and the negative integers 
were to be thought of as representing ‘deficient modes of being a 
positive integer’” (BT 42, note 1).
T
Heidegger tells us, for example, that solicitude, as a charac-
teristic of Being-with-one-another, maintains itself for the most 
part in the “deficient and Indiff erent modes.” “Being for, against, 
or without one another, passing one another by, not ‘mattering’ to 
one another—these are possible ways of solicitude” (BT 158).
T
Because of the prevalence of these deficient modes, Dasein,
sensing a need to create factical human connection, has devised


=== END OF PAGE 146 ===

=== PAGE 147 ===

 
 
Forum Day Two: Session Two 
133
ANGEL
Having this as a racket isn’t my fault?
ERHARD
No, the question of fault is... it isn’t somebody else’s fault either. And it’s your responsibility. 
And as I’ve said, nobody knows what I’m talking about when I use the word responsibility, so
we’re not going to talk about that much anymore. Relax until we get back. You’ve been living 
with the pain for however many years it’s been, another... while people take a break... You know, 
peeing is very important to people... Peeing is more important to people than their lives. And
particularly more important than your life. If it was their life they might not have to pee, but 
because it’s your life, they have to pee. So we’ll continue this after the break.
Erhard left the room, and Kipp came onto the platform. He moved to the blackboard and expanded 
what Erhard had written about the structure of a racket:
right
g
dominates
justifi es itself
j
win
wrong   avoids domination        invalidates others      lose
KIPP
The payoff  expresses itself as: it always dominates, wins, or justifi es itself. Till you can get up
here on the board, I promise you nothing. The structure for the payoff , what keeps the payoff  in
place, is what’s up there on the board. The fi rst thing it costs you is your self-expression. Second,
the cost is any happiness in your life. You’re only happy to be right. The next cost is your vitality 
or your health. And the fi nal cost of having your life be lived by your racket is the possibility of 
love, of affi  nity.  You cannot put love, affi  nity, and being right together. If the cost gets bigger
than the payoff , you’ll give it up in a moment. That’s why in a tragedy you’ll be heroic: because 
the cost is right there in your face. Angel has been too generous. She has given you the whole
mechanism. If she couldn’t be right about the pain what would she have to confront in her life?
Erhard joined Kipp on the platform.
ERHARD
Angel, the pain makes the divorces right. You getting a divorce was wrong, and the pain makes 
it right. You’ve got the pain to make yourself right. That’s the payoff . What I’m asking you to see
is that the pain is not there because you got divorced. The pain is there to keep you from being
wrong about having been divorced. It works that way, doesn’t it?
ANGEL
Yes.
ERHARD
Never mind why it’s there. Forget that for the moment. Too hard to see that. If the pain weren’t 
there you’d be very wrong wouldn’t you? You’d be a shallow nobody whose promises didn’t 
ontic structures to correct the problem—empathy and “welfare 
work” are two that Heidegger mentions. But he also points out that 
these ontic solutions can never constitute or adequately replace 
Being-with, since they overlook the fundamental ontological issue:
the deficiencies in the dominant modes of Being-with.
But solicitude has a positive mode as well, which Heidegger 
calls extreme solicitude. This mode has two forms. On the one
hand, Dasein can leap in for the Other:
This kind of solicitude takes over for the Other 
that with which he is to concern himself. The
Other is thus thrown out of his own position. . 
. . In such solicitude the Other can become one
who is dominated and dependent, even if this
domination is a tacit one and remains hidden 
from him. This kind of solicitude, which leaps
in and takes away ‘care,’ is to a large extent
determinative for Being with one another. . . .
(BT 158)
“
In normal circumstances, a Forum participant might expect to 
receive that kind of sympathetic response to her circumstances, 
such as the marital issues being described by this participant. But 
Erhard’s solicitude in The Forum is of the second form:
[This is] a kind of solicitude which does not 
so much leap in for the Other as leap ahead of 
him . . . not in order to take away his ‘care’ but 
rather to give it back to him authentically as 
such for the first time. This kind of solicitude
pertains essentially to authentic care—that is, 
to the existence of the Other, not to a “what”
with which he is concerned; it helps the Other 
to become transparent to himself in his care 
and to become free for it. (BT 158–159)
“
We find in Heidegger’s distinction here of extreme solicitude as
leaping ahead of the Other a profound characterization of the role
r
of a Forum leader. ■


=== END OF PAGE 147 ===

=== PAGE 148 ===

134
SPEAKING BEING
mean anything, wouldn’t you? Yeah. So you need the pain to keep you from being wrong. At
least it works that way doesn’t it?
(She nods)
Good, that’s all I want you to see for the moment. I want you to see how godawful important
it is to look good. Now we’ve gotten looking good a lot more sharply defi ned. Looking good is
constituted by being right. Or having something you identify with as right. And having other
people and other things be wrong. Angel would tell you that people who get divorced easily and 
don’t have any pain are wrong. I want you to see that it is so important that you’re willing to
suff er pain over a long period of time: intense pain over a long period of time that destroys your
happiness. Being right is so important, so sacred, that even a lot of pain over a long time is not
too much a price to pay to be right. I want you to see that this is not anything that would occur
to you normally. It would never ever in a million years occur to Angel that the pain made her
right, because that’s not the structure for interpretation in which we hold life. You and I have 
invented a new structure of interpretation for life: racket. Getting divorced does not produce
pain. Having your child die does not produce pain. Rackets produce pain. What happens never 
produces pain. If you lose a child and you’re sad, that heals the loss, and that’s not a racket. 
Authentic sadness heals the loss, then the loss diminishes, then the sadness, and fi nally it’s 
complete. But not in a racket: where life becomes about being sad. It’s very hard to see this, and
that’s why you need to distinguish this possibility powerfully so that what was a soap opera, a 
drama, which is very real and valid, can be seen for what it is, namely a racket. That isn’t going
to be easy for you to do, so you need to listen up with the distinguishing.
(indicating Angel)
You and I are not fi nished. After the break.
Kipp set up paired shares. The Forum Supervisor announced the beginning of the break at 3:50 pm.
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 148 ===

=== PAGE 149 ===



=== END OF PAGE 149 ===

=== PAGE 150 ===

136
SPEAKING BEING
SESSION TWO INTERVAL
The Forgetting of Being, Part One of Eight: Getting and Losing 
In November 2013, while this book was in development, we delivered a presenta-
tion about it as members of a panel at the National Communication Association 
conference in Washington DC. Our thesis was that the ontological discourse of The 
Forum provides participants with direct access to an experience of Being. Following 
the presentation, an audience member asked this question: Aft er participants have
undergone the experience of Being that The Forum makes available, what becomes 
of that experience? Does it persist? 
This is obviously a central question for any consideration of Erhard’s work.
From its inception as the est Training, there has been a persistent quality of elusive-
t
ness, and therefore of mystery, 
y about the transformation this work makes available. 
People do not leave The Forum having gained the kind of cognitive understanding 
we generally expect from an educational process. The result, instead, is that by en-
gaging in the conversation that occurs in The Forum, participants have “gotten it,” in
somewhat the way that one gets a joke. Heidegger characterizes such a phenome-
non as undergoing an experience with language, which means that language “befalls
us, strikes us, comes over us, overwhelms us and transforms us” (“NL” in OWL 57).
The process is not linear; Erhard has described it as not getting it for a long
time, and then getting it all at once. But there is at the same time a recognition that
what you’re suddenly seeing is a truth you’d already always known at some level. 
Heidegger characterized it as “a leap” onto the ground on which we are already 
standing (WCT 233), and Erhard has characterized it in similar terms: “I can’t have it 
T
and give it to you. But I can communicate in a way so that you get an opportunity to 
realize that you have it yourself already. Essentially, this is what the est Training [and
t
later The Forum] was developed to do” (Bartley 169).
y
Heidegger’s German word for this kind of experience is Augenblick. The usual
translation is instant, moment, or split second; but Hubert Dreyfus says that in Heide-
gger’s use, the word is more appropriately rendered as moment of vision or transfor-
mation (BT, note 376; Dreyfus,
T
Being-in-the-World 321). In
d
Being and Time, Heidegger 
uses the word to designate the gestalt switch that occurs when a human being takes 
resolute ownership of his life and an authentic existence becomes possible (BT 387). 
T
Since the experience of The Forum is not understood in the usual way, neither 
is it retained in memory in the way that cognitive understanding is. Being can be
communicated, and the results reported by Forum participants give evidence that
its communication is experienced as transformative; but a quality of elusiveness
persists in the way that transformative experience is retained. Further, according to 
Erhard, the elusiveness is to be expected. “That’s the way it’s supposed to happen,”
he tells The Forum participants. “Getting and losing.”
 Why the elusiveness? What is it about Being that leads it to withdraw—as it
has withdrawn over two millennia from the human experience of existence; and as 
it withdraws repeatedly during The Forum dialogue as Erhard and the participants 
struggle to bring it to presence?
Heidegger has provided a response to this question in a series of lectures he
delivered at the University of Freiburg in 1935. Published in 1959 under the title An 
Introduction to Metaphysics, these lectures became his first book-length work to be 
translated into English. He later extended his thinking on the subject in four essays, 
published in 1975 as Early Greek Thinking. In these volumes, Heidegger locates the
source of Being’s withdrawal at the point of its first emergence. He calls this junc-
ture the beginning of history—the moment when the West’s first philosophers were 
beginning to think about the nature of Being, and to understand themselves as
world-creators.
 But in Heidegger’s account, Western thinking, at its very inception, failed to
capture the truth of Being in language. As a consequence, Being, and what its 
experience might make available, has been lost to us, and so thoroughly that even
its conceptualization defies our thinking. What does Heidegger see as possible 
if human access to Being was restored? He says that we would be opened to the
epiphany of a world (IM 69)—our everyday perceptions and experiences would occur 
newly, in a context of possibility that is not present in our current view of things. 
This context of possibility, he says, was available to humans in one brief 
moment of history. What became of Being? In this series on the forgetting of Being, 
during Intervals between sessions, we will present Heidegger’s account.


=== END OF PAGE 150 ===

=== PAGE 151 ===



=== END OF PAGE 151 ===

=== PAGE 152 ===

138
SPEAKING BEING
The Forum resumed at 4:20 pm. Kipp returned to the platform and called for participants to share 
what they had discovered about their rackets.
KIPP
We asked you to distinguish sharing yourself. The time in The Forum for explaining your life is
f
over.
JODIE
I want a relationship.
KIPP
Are you sharing or talking about?
JODIE
I don’t know.
KIPP
My racket is... My payoff  is... The way my racket shows up in my life is... Share the juice.
JODIE
My racket is that I want a relationship. And every time one appears I sabotage it, so that it
doesn’t happen. 
KIPP
What’s the truth?
JODIE
I’m not in a relationship.
KIPP
No. What’s authentic is “if I had a relationship, I’d be wrong. What gets me up in the morning is
how I can avoid being in a relationship.” And the racket is that you say what?
JODIE
That I want a relationship.
KIPP
Who do you get sucked into the racket? There’s a distinction called “on the court.” There’s
another distinction called “up in the stands talking about what’s on the court.” What your life is
about is not having a relationship. How do you feel about that?
FORUM DAY TWO: 
SESSION THREE


=== END OF PAGE 152 ===

=== PAGE 153 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session Three 
139
JODIE
Cheated. 
KIPP
That was on the court. You could hear that. Who has to pay for your not having a relationship?
JODIE
Everyone in my life.
KIPP
If you’re not cheated, you don’t know who to be in life. Maybe there is no being authentic.
Maybe the best there is, is being authentic about your own inauthenticity. Being related is much 
more risky than being unrelated. You’ve got to be there in the presence of being human. 
JODIE
I got it.
KIPP
Don’t be so quick to get it. See, I don’t think you got it. I don’t think you got the dagger in your 
heart. What’s your racket an excuse for? You don’t have to reveal yourself. You don’t have to
create a relationship. What persistent condition do you complain about? A cheated person has 
to look like a cheated person. You can’t have love in your life or you’d be wrong. What today’s 
about is beginning to be in the presence of your own life.
JODIE
I want to get beyond this. 
KIPP
There is no getting beyond it. That’s more California. The opportunity is to be with it. Maybe
there is no getting beyond your racket. Maybe the only dignity is in owning it.
The participant, Mike, who earlier in the day had interacted with Erhard about “knowing how to
walk,” raised his hand.
MIKE
I don’t know what my racket is. I’m lost.
(laughter)r
KIPP
What case are you pleading?


=== END OF PAGE 153 ===

=== PAGE 154 ===

140
SPEAKING BEING
MIKE
I don’t know.
KIPP
Look at your life. What is your life about? What is something that if you could do, you’d do it?
MIKE
I would have everybody like me.
KIPP
But...
MIKE
But if they get to know me, they stop listening to me after ninety seconds.
KIPP
When you are in the presence of another human being, what’s there?
MIKE
I look at the ceiling.
KIPP
Do you feel stupid?
MIKE
Yes.
KIPP
What happened when you were young?
MIKE
I tried to get in with a crowd of kids at school. I tried to blend in. A good friend of mine turned 
away and cut me out of the circle.
KIPP
Any others?
MIKE
When I was sweeping. Ten-years-old. My dad said I didn’t sweep well. I wasn’t smart enough to 
sweep.


=== END OF PAGE 154 ===

=== PAGE 155 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session Three 
141
KIPP 
“I’m not smart enough to sweep” never happened.
Erhard joined Kipp on the platform.
ERHARD
Mike, it’s something you became. Did “I’m not smart enough to sweep” ever happen?
The tone here was very quiet and still—the interaction was delicate, Mike somehow fragile.
MIKE
I don’t understand; I need more clarifi cation. I know that I missed places.
ERHARD
Did it happen that you missed places?
MIKE
Yes.
ERHARD
Did it happen that your father pointed out where you missed?
MIKE
Yes. 
ERHARD
Did “I’m not smart enough to sweep” ever happen?
MIKE
I guess not. 
ERHARD
What do you mean, you guess? Guess is part of your racket about being stupid. I want you to get 
something: you became “I’m not even smart enough to sweep.” You didn’t just think it. You didn’t
”
just have that thought. You became “I’m not smart enough to sweep.” You made yourself into
“I’m not smart enough to sweep.”
Erhard sat on the edge of the platform facing Mike. The room was very still. Kipp sat nearby on the
platform edge.
MIKE
I became “I’m not smart enough to sweep.”


=== END OF PAGE 155 ===

=== PAGE 156 ===

142
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
You made yourself into “I’m not smart enough to sweep.” It wasn’t true; It wasn’t false: Because
that’s not something that’s true or false. It’s just something you became.
MIKE
Okay. 
ERHARD
What’s the payoff  in becoming that?
MIKE
I didn’t have to try any harder, so I gave up.
ERHARD
One of the payoff s was, you avoided the responsibility of having to produce the result. You
avoided the domination of the responsibility for producing. Your brothers and sisters were dom-
inated by the need to produce. You avoided that domination.
MIKE
Correct.
ERHARD
Good. When did you fi rst have this conversation about being stupid?
MIKE
Eight or nine years old.
ERHARD
What happened that that became a conversation?
MIKE
Another time I was sweeping, I missed a spot.
ERHARD
And you became stupid at some point. You’ve got as much sense as anybody does. You started 
being stupid when you were eight or nine years old as a way of dealing with what was going on
with your dad. It’s a way of being you took on. What other payoff s are there?
MIKE
I didn’t have to fi ght my dad back in fi ghting that I was stupid.


=== END OF PAGE 156 ===

=== PAGE 157 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session Three 
143
ERHARD
You avoided the domination of your father by giving in.
MIKE
Right.
ERHARD
How much energy did your father put into fi xing you?
MIKE
He kept pointing out all the wrong things I did.
ERHARD
So you dominated your dad by getting him attached to your stupidity, right? Like Brer Rabbit. 
That was his relationship to you, trying to deal with your stupidity. 
MIKE
When he was trying to correct me.
ERHARD
What other payoff s did you get out of being stupid? Did you get to be right? Did your father get
to be wrong?
MIKE
I got to be right about being dumb.
ERHARD
Did you identify strongly with your father?
MIKE
Yes.
ERHARD
So you made what you identifi ed with right.
MIKE
Correct.
ERHARD
What did it cost you to have a racket called being stupid?
MIKE
I stopped talking with my dad.


=== END OF PAGE 157 ===

=== PAGE 158 ===

144
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
So there was a loss of relationship?
MIKE
Yes.
ERHARD
A certain loss of love.
MIKE
Loss of my self.
ERHARD
You lost self-expression. You cut off  that avenue of self-expression called intelligence.
MIKE
Okay.
ERHARD
What about happiness?
MIKE
I was sad that I couldn’t make my dad happy.
ERHARD
Got it.
MIKE
I still don’t understand why the whole crowd was laughing at the beginning.
ERHARD
I don’t know. Why were they laughing at the beginning? 
KIPP
They laughed when he stood up and said he didn’t know what his racket was.
ERHARD
Mike, you’ve been in here for a little while right? People thought I was insulting when I called
them assholes. That was like a “damned with faint praise,” not an insult. Asshole is a fairly high
level. People are really stupid. Are you tuned in?


=== END OF PAGE 158 ===

=== PAGE 159 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session Three 
145
MIKE
Yeah.
ERHARD
I want to acknowledge you for not pulling one bit of shit during the two conversations you’ve 
had with me. You are an extraordinarily straight guy, who just had one racket: stupid, which 
you now know is a racket. My business is that when you run the racket you’ll know it’s a racket.
Anything else to complete for you?
MIKE
No.
ERHARD
Thanks.
(applause as Mike sits)
(to the group)
All you’ve got to do is get it straight: my racket is, the cost is, the payoff  is. That’s all you got to
get. Just that.
(looking around)
Where is Angel? Stand up and tell me what you’ve made of this so far.
Angel, who had earlier interacted with Erhard about her divorce, rose.
ERHARD
What’s your racket? My racket is...
ANGEL
I’ve had a long time to think about this so I’m supposed to know, right?
ERHARD
You’re not supposed to know anything. What do you know? My racket is...
ANGEL
That I’m a victim.
ERHARD
Very good. Yeah. You’ve got this big stupid soap opera, this stuff . The truth is you’re a racke-
teer. The truth is you’ve got this racket about being a victim. That’s the truth. Not all this soap
opera... That’s a smoke screen for being a racketeer. Your racket is that you’re a victim. Yes?


=== END OF PAGE 159 ===

=== PAGE 160 ===

146
SPEAKING BEING
ANGEL
Yes.
ERHARD
And what is the payoff  for being a victim? Take your time and look up there and say what the
payoff  is. 
(pausing as Angel stares at the chalkboard
(
)
Puzzling, isn’t it?
ANGEL
I don’t know what I get to be right about. I get to be right about what?
ERHARD
About being sincere.
ANGEL
And deeply emotional and caring. You forgot about that.
ERHARD
Yeah, you’re not deeply emotional and caring or sincere. You’re a fucking racketeer. And the 
racket is being a victim and the payoff  is that it makes you right. You’ve got this bullshit golden
calf called being deeply emotional and caring and being sincere. Being emotional and caring 
and sincere is bullshit. This is not holy or sacred. I didn’t say it wasn’t nice. So, you’ve got this
racket called being a victim and it makes you right because if you weren’t a victim and you 
weren’t suff ering, then you would be wrong, you would be invalidated, would you not?
ANGEL
Yes. 
ERHARD
You would be invalidated as a caring, deeply emotional, sincere person.
ANGEL
That’s why your telling me that I don’t hurt over my divorce invalidates and hurts.
ERHARD
I understand. I understand. All I’m doing is getting you, what I call “up on the pike,” so we can
work together on something. Did you want to say something?
ANGEL
I say that what I want to get out of The Forum is a marriage that would, like, last forever, but 
obviously what I’ve been about is making sure that I never can have that. 


=== END OF PAGE 160 ===

=== PAGE 161 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session Three 147
ERHARD
But you don’t care about having a marriage that would last forever. All you care about is what 
validates you as a caring, sincere, deeply feeling person. 
ANGEL
That would do it.
ERHARD
Yeah exactly, but you see, you don’t care about being married. You really don’t care about being 
married. You don’t. If God came into the room and said, if you dyed your hair purple, that
would make it clear to everyone that you are a deeply caring, sincere, feeling person, hell, you’d 
be out there dyeing your hair purple. To hell with getting married. That’s your act. Your act is
that you’re sincere, deeply feeling, and a caring person. That’s an act with you. That’s not what
you are. Mike is not stupid. Mike has an act called “being stupid.”
ANGEL
So his father gave him his act.
ERHARD
No, no. He gave himself his act to deal with his father. Never mind that. Here’s what I want you 
to get: Mike is not stupid. Mike’s got an act called being stupid. You don’t care. You’ve got an act
called “I care” and you’re not deeply feeling. That’s an act. And you’re not sincere. That’s also an
act.
ANGEL
I believe he’s not stupid. 
ERHARD
And you don’t care. Now that’s not quite accurate. So listen up. It’s worse than that. I don’t
mean that you don’t care like “I don’t care.” I mean you are not caring. That’s an act. What you
call caring is a fucking act. Why are you afraid of not caring?
ANGEL
It would make me a bad person.
ERHARD
Who didn’t care? 
ANGEL
It’s the opposite.
ERHARD
Who?


=== END OF PAGE 161 ===

=== PAGE 162 ===

148
SPEAKING BEING
ANGEL
Who cares more than anyone I know?
ERHARD
Who’s that?
ANGEL
My mother.
ERHARD
Okay. What happened there? We haven’t made the connection yet. Did you decide you had to be 
like your mother to survive? Oh, you didn’t care, right?
ANGEL
Right. My mom told me I didn’t care.
ERHARD
I got it. And?
ANGEL
And that’s what happened. My mom told me I didn’t care.
ERHARD
How old were you?
ANGEL
I was fi ve.
ERHARD
Good. So what does a fi ve year old... Take your time. Let yourself be with that. So you were a
fi ve-year-old little girl, and your mother told you that you didn’t care. Yeah?
ANGEL
Yeah. My mother took in foster children. And I felt unloved because she was giving them her
love and attention. She told me I was not being caring because I should care and understand 
that they need it more than I do, and that I was being selfi sh.
ERHARD
Isn’t that a stupid fucking thing to tell a fi ve-year-old? Listen...
ANGEL
But she was helping somebody who really needed it, who didn’t have a mother or father, who...


=== END OF PAGE 162 ===

=== PAGE 163 ===

 
 
Forum Day Two: Session Three 
149
ERHARD
Horseshit! What do you mean really needed it? That’s all horseshit. They’re probably 10 times as 
tough as you are. Probably needed a lot less than you did. But...irrelevant. You think a fi ve-year-
old is sophisticated enough to deal with that kind of logic?
ANGEL
I tried.
ERHARD
Is a fi ve-year-old sophisticated enough to deal with that kind of logic? You know what a fi ve-
year-old girl looks like?
ANGEL
Yeah, I do, I saw home movies over Christmas. I know exactly what I looked like. 
ERHARD
A fi ve-year-old girl is pretty...not very worldly, huh? And also very caring, aren’t they?
ANGEL
Yes. But she told me I didn’t care.
ERHARD
Wait. We’re not back at fi ve now. We’re having a discussion up here for a moment and then we’ll
go back to fi ve. But I want you to look at a fi ve-year-old little girl and see that a fi ve-year-old girl 
cares very deeply, and is not up to the logic “you don’t care” because if you’d care you would 
know that these other children need more love and attention than you do. So you dealt with it
like a fi ve-year-old. What does a fi ve-year-old decide?
ANGEL
She was right.
ERHARD (raising voice)e
No! She decides she’s going to be the most caring person in the whole world!
ANGEL
Yes! Yes! Yes!
ERHARD
Like those magical bullshit fucking things that fi ve-year-old girls do, which is wonderful when 
you’re a fi ve-year-old girl. You know, you decide, “I’m going to be the most caring person in the
whole world! No one’s going to care more than me.” 


=== END OF PAGE 163 ===

=== PAGE 164 ===

150
SPEAKING BEING
ANGEL
Right.
ERHARD
You became that like Mike became stupid. It wasn’t something you decided, it wasn’t something 
you thought. You became that.
ANGEL
You want to hear something stupid? Being stupid isn’t good but being sensitive and caring is 
good.
ERHARD
But listen up. You didn’t quite get what I said. You actually became, gave yourself an identity,
called caring. Whatever caring you had got buried under that identity. You became a caring ma-
chine. You became a caring robot. And whatever authentic caring you had, whatever authentic 
feeling you had; that got obscured by the robot. You get what I’m saying? You know what it’s 
like to be married to a robot? Not good. This is not a good thing. Being related to a fucking
robot. Particularly when the robot looks like they might be good for something else, like a real
relationship. Did you hear what I just said?
ANGEL
Yes.
ERHARD
That caring act will get you plenty of relatedness, but it will never fulfi ll itself.
ANGEL
Right. That’s why I could get married a million times, but I can’t stay.
ERHARD
Caring is very attractive. The only problem is it’s no fun to do it with a robot. And you’re a fuck-
ing robot. You know, like a doll. Like a caring doll. You push on the button that says “I care.” It’s
a lot of fun for a little while. But after a while it’s got to have some substance. You took a very 
good thing and turned it into a mechanism.
(referring to Mike)
You see, he at least took something bad and turned it into a mechanism.
(laughter)r
He had a little better luck than you did. You took something really good and turned it into a 
mechanism. So you know, his straightness, his authenticity leaks out around his act. But you 
took caring and being, like really being there, and turned it into an act, and it obscures your
authentic caring and authentic feeling. 


=== END OF PAGE 164 ===

=== PAGE 165 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session Three 
151
ANGEL
So I’m inauthentic about caring.
ERHARD
Precisely. Now you have a great fucking act. It’s attractive, like bait.
Erhard sat on the edge of the platform, facing Angel. His tone was more forceful in this interaction
than it had been with Mike. Kipp again sat nearby.
ERHARD (continuing)
You attract people because you’re good at your act called caring. And you’re good at your act 
called deeply feeling. So you get the fi sh up.
ANGEL
I was so good I believed it.
ERHARD
Exactly. See, underneath there is some kind of caring. I don’t know what the hell it is. Maybe
you care, I don’t know. That doesn’t interest me. I’ll tell you one thing. You’ll never be happy 
being something you’re not, being your act. Ever. You’re never going to care enough, feel deeply 
enough, to be happy, because none of that is who you are. And I don’t know what you are. You 
may be caring. I don’t know. Neither do you. You only know what your act is. What there is to 
get is that it’s an act. You’ve done a very good job of that standing there. And I know it isn’t easy. 
You noticed how a lot of the stupidity for Mike started to go away near the end of that conver-
sation, interesting, right? Yeah. You want to relax for a little while; about this caring shit and 
about being deeply feeling. You might want to enjoy yourself for a little while, having some fun 
being shallow.
(laughter)r
See it doesn’t make any diff erence. This is a really important conversation because most of the
acts are going to look a little nasty. But a positive act is as detrimental as a negative one, in fact
it’s worse. She would have died like that. Shit. All the pain is pure bullshit, pure bullshit, noth-
ing authentic about the pain, not an iota of it. It’s all there to make you right. The pain’s not so
attractive anymore is it?
ANGEL
No.
ERHARD
What happened? You got divorced twice. Okay. That’s what happened, right? You got married. 
Then you got divorced. You got married. Then you got
divorced. That’s all that happened. Not, “and I didn’t keep my vows, and nah nah nah nah.”
None of that ever happened.


=== END OF PAGE 165 ===

=== PAGE 166 ===

152
SPEAKING BEING
ANGEL
Right.
ERHARD
When my dog walks up to you, and all he can tell is you smell good. That’s the whole story 
about you for my dog. You’re starting to get how brutally stupid it’s been to waste your life feel-
ing badly about those stupid divorces. You know, you made a mistake. You know, I had seven
children. I never punished my children. I never decided on their punishment. In fact we never 
talked about punishment. In life you do whatever you want, I’ve got certain rules. The rules are
not for you; they are for me. Don’t walk out in the street and get run over, I don’t want to see
you bloody. When you grow up you can do anything you want. When you’re around me don’t
get run over, I don’t want to see you bloody. You get run over there’s a consequence. When my 
kids did something I would say, “You did it, good, now what’s the consequence?” “I shouldn’t 
be allowed to eat for a week.”
(laughter)r
“Okay,” I would say, “I understand what you said, but we’re going to be a bit more lenient than 
that.” Kids are nuts about punishing themselves. And you had a fi ve-year-old running her mar-
riage. You had to be the most caring person in the whole world. So when the marriage didn’t
work, like when I asked my kids what should happen to you because you did this, I should not 
eat for a week. You had to make this enormous punishment for yourself.
ANGEL
Like I should not be happy for the rest of my life.
ERHARD
Precisely. Very good. I don’t want to see you cry any more about that. I want you to see how 
stupid that is, how patently, brutally stupid. How old are you?
ANGEL
Thirty-two.
ERHARD
How old were you when you fi rst got married?
ANGEL
Twenty-one.
ERHARD
How old were you when you got divorced fi rst?
ANGEL
Twenty-fi ve.


=== END OF PAGE 166 ===

=== PAGE 167 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session Three 
153
ERHARD
Okay. How long have you been suff ering and unhappy?
ANGEL
From what?
ERHARD
From the divorce. Did it take the second divorce?
ANGEL
Yeah. The suff ering and unhappiness was in the marriage.
ERHARD
But you put up with it.
ANGEL
I put up with a lot.
ERHARD
And that was good because somebody who cares more than anybody else in the world will put
up with a lot of shit. So it made you right to suff er in your marriage. Made you a good person. 
You know what doormats attract?
ANGEL
People who step on them.
ERHARD
Exactly. You got it. And you know what? A doormat keeps a person who wants to wipe his 
feet stuck to the doormat. You dominated him just as sure as I’m sitting on this platform. You 
dominated him by being the victim. Now, he had his racket as well—two racketeers rubbing up 
against each other. 
ANGEL
We had a great game.
ERHARD
It’s disgusting.
ANGEL
I couldn’t play without him.
ERHARD
Right.


=== END OF PAGE 167 ===

=== PAGE 168 ===

154
SPEAKING BEING
ANGEL
And so I turned it around in my second marriage, where I was happy, but then I created the
divorce so I could be a victim of the divorce.
ERHARD
Watch that word “created”; that gets bandied around by people who have done this work, and
they don’t know what they’re talking about. What happened was: you got divorced. And that
left you deeply unhappy.
ANGEL
The same place I was when I was married before.
ERHARD
Yeah. So you’ve got to get to the point where a fart and having been divorced are on equal levels. 
(laughter)r
ANGEL
There’s something very wrong about that. I don’t know what it is...
(laughter)r
Is that really possible?
ERHARD
Yeah it is really possible. They’re both just a “what happened.”
(laughter)r
People who get married sometimes get divorced, true or false?
ANGEL
True.
ERHARD
You got married and you got divorced, true or false?
ANGEL
True.
ERHARD
And that’s what happened. Like a fart.


=== END OF PAGE 168 ===

=== PAGE 169 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session Three 
155
ANGEL (lightheartedly)y
There you go invalidating my um...
ERHARD (playing an imaginary violin)
n
Yeah, your zhuuuuuu.
(laughter)r
Okay. Your racket is being a victim. And your racket is being righteous.
ANGEL
And being caring.
ERHARD
Right. And it makes you right and the rest of the world wrong. It allows you to dominate and 
allows you to avoid domination of a gutsy being-related-to-somebody.
ANGEL
Yes.
ERHARD
Don’t forget that part. That’s an important part of the payoff . And you got to justify yourself. You 
see, “after all I was a good girl.” And what it cost you is, well, my guess is you pay for everything 
up there.
(referring to the chalkboard)
You’re so young, maybe you haven’t paid with any of your health, I don’t know, maybe vitality. 
Clearly it cost you happiness and love.
ANGEL
Because I thought that was the act of loving someone.
ERHARD
And it is the act, but in that wrong sense. And my guess is that it has cost you some self-expres-
sion. See I don’t know who you are.
ANGEL
I don’t either.
ERHARD
I know who you are not. And that’s right, you don’t know either. And when you get out of here 
you can have the fun of fi nding out. And you’ll fi nd out every time you get off  it, and you won’t 


=== END OF PAGE 169 ===

=== PAGE 170 ===

156
SPEAKING BEING
fi nd out every time you’re on it. And for you, on it is caring. And feeling deeply. I’ve been doing 
this work long enough that I can see behind people’s masks a little bit, and you’re a very beau-
tiful person, but not in the way you think. Not in some airy fairy bullshit sense. But in a really 
gutsy sense. Who knows. I can be full of shit too.
(to the group)
There’s no fi nish to this... There’s no “And then she stopped being that!” She’ll be that act for-
ever. And when she’s being that she’ll have a possibility beyond being that. When she’s running
that act there will be no possibility beyond running that act. You got to own being a fake. You’ve
got to be authentic about being inauthentic. Good for you. There ought to be some lightness in
that for you. 
ANGEL
It’s incredible. I can’t even describe how it feels to be able to say that I faked caring.
ERHARD
Yeah. 
(long, loud applause)
(to the group)
The important part for you is to get how implausible this is, that being able to be that you’re 
a fake gives you power. That’s totally implausible. It’s what you’re afraid to be that keeps you 
from being. And the worst thing in the whole universe, the worst thing for the last twenty 
seven years of Angel’s life would be to be a fake. There couldn’t be anything worse than that. 
The nastiest thing she could be. And avoiding being that cost her her life. That’s implausi-
ble, that doesn’t make any sense, and if I told you that yesterday you wouldn’t have gotten it. 
You could not have gotten what Angel just did with herself, yesterday. You’re now living in a 
diff erent structure of interpretation. You’re dwelling in a diff erent conversation. So you can 
tolerate counter commonsensical phenomena: what doesn’t make sense normally—like being 
able to be “I don’t care” for a person for whom that is the worst thing you could be—would be 
a source of power.
(to Angel)
Anything else?
ANGEL
No, thank you.
ERHARD (to another participant)
Yes?
SOCIAL MOODS
As we pointed out in our discussion of moods in Day One, Heide-
gger says that moods are not individual “psychical” phenomena,
but rather aspects of the way the world is disclosed to Dasein. 
He also says that moods can be public:
Publicness, as the kind of Being which belongs
to the “they,” not only has in general its own
way of having a mood, but needs moods and
‘makes’ them for itself. It is into such a mood 
and out of such a mood that the orator speaks. 
He must understand the possibilities of such
moods in order to rouse them and guide them
aright. (BT 178)
“
In our analysis of The Forum, we are not characterizing Erhard
(or any other Forum leader) as an orator, but as a rhetor, which is
to say simply a person who uses language to some end. Rhetoric 
does not have the same formal implications as oratory, and the di-
alogic ontological rhetoric of The Forum is a significantly diff erent 
mode of communication from the monologic public speaking of an 
orator. 
And yet Erhard, in a debriefing with The Forum leaders during
the 1989 Forum, stated that one of the results he had to achieve in 
leading The Forum was to “produce some eff ects.” We also know 
from our experience that Forum leaders are acutely sensitive to
the mood in The Forum room.
Hubert Dreyfus, in his study of Being and Time, asserts that
in addition to being public, moods can be social, and he quotes
this passage on social moods from a lecture Heidegger delivered 
in 1929:
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 170 ===

=== PAGE 171 ===

 
 
Forum Day Two: Session Three 
157
PARTICIPANT
Can you have more than one act?
ERHARD
Yes. I don’t say you won’t do your old number again. I just say you’re left with a possibility 
beyond your old number. Being related is enormously risky. I don’t care what fairy-tale bullshit
you bought into. You’re going to get hurt being related.
(to the group)
There are no answers to being successfully related. And you, assholes, have been looking for the
answer to being successfully related. That’s why you’re assholes. There’s a way to be empowered 
and enabled in the face of the risk that being related is. You can bring power and ability to the
risk. You can’t bring answers. There are no formulae, no ten easy steps. Okay. We need to do this 
about three times.
Kipp now took the lead in the interactions with participants, but Erhard remained in the conversa-
tion, wandering around at the back of the room and sometimes taking over an interaction that Kipp 
had begun. 
ERHARD
See, you’re so thrown to the story that you tell the story about the racket, and that will nev-
er give you anything beyond your racket. That’s what the structure of the distinction racket 
is for, to break up the story. You die without knowing who you are if you live your life for
approval.
(regarding one participant’s persistent back pain)
You think people are really built that badly?
PARTICIPANT
My racket is I’m scared of doing it wrong. That doesn’t sound right.
ERHARD
That’s a very frequent payoff—avoid the domination of being responsible for. That’s a very 
childish concern, but that’s where your racket comes from. Kids’ rackets are avoiding the 
domination of being responsible. You are going to be a little boy or little girl until you com-
plete your relationship with your parents. You are not going to grow up until you complete 
your relationship with your parents. You are not going to get away with it. I happen to have 
had a mother who never made a mistake... only one. I’ll tell you what that was later. This
is one that I know about deeply and profoundly. You are not ever going to make it until
your parents make it with you. No kidding. You just got to get off it with your parents. I’ve 
spent most of my life engaged in this question about what it is to be human. What is it that 
Moods are not accompanying phenomena;
rather, they are the sort of thing that deter-
mine Being-with-one-another in advance. It
seems as if, so to speak, a mood is in each case
already there, like an atmosphere, in which 
we are steeped and by which we are thor-
oughly determined. It not only seems as if this 
were so, it is so; and in light of these facts, it is 
necessary to dispense with the psychology of 
feelings and experiences and consciousness. 
(Being in the World 171)
“
Observes Dreyfus: “Heidegger would no doubt appreciate the fact 
that we ordinarily say we are in a mood, not that a mood is an
experience in us.”
Having participated in, and observed, a number of Forums, we 
know from personal experience that the process can be seen as a 
roller-coaster of mood shift s. Erhard tells the participants on the
first day that they should bring their current moods into The Fo-
rum with them, and not try to fix them; so the moods of the partici-
pants are of course at some level individual, though not subjective, 
with each participant Being-in-his-or-her-own-world.
But in conjunction with our analysis of Being-with (in the
sidebar with that title in Session One of Day Two), and in light of 
our own experience of The Forum, we raise this point about the
nature of social moods. We do so to contrast such moods with the
collective sense of aff inity that inevitably accompanies The Forum
transformation. 
Heidegger’s distinction of the publicness of the they-self is 
presented as an aspect of Dasein’s fleeing its authentic self. Public-
ness, in that context, characterizes the levelling-down of Dasein’s
possibilities to the average, in the service of its flight from authen-
ticity. We assert that the general mood in The Forum, through its
roller-coaster changes to its ebullient finish, is an aspect of what 
it means for the authentic self to appropriate its own inauthentic-
ity, and it diverges greatly from the levelling down the publicness


=== END OF PAGE 171 ===

=== PAGE 172 ===

158
SPEAKING BEING
makes you and me the way we are? The standard interpretation as to how you and I got to
be the way we are has no power. It gives me nothing to say about it. I can’t talk myself into
being. A lot of the lack of freedom is constituted in your relationship with your parents.
The single most important learning experience in my life was doing programs with teenag-
ers. The ten-day course for teenagers we used to do in the mountains—let me tell you what 
I found out about teenagers. After ten days, you find out that the single most important
thing in your life is that you love your mother and father. And that’s no shit. And there’s
very little structure in a teenager’s life to express that. You’ve got to get that resolved, and if 
you’re smart you’ll get it resolved tonight. We’ll let you out of here early enough to call your
mother, call your father.
(forcefully
(
)
You just gotta get off  it. You’re wasting your time and money in here if you’re going to stay on it 
with your parents. 
(in response to a question about what it means to be complete)
What I meant by being complete... your parents have got to be all right with you exactly the way 
they are. Your parents don’t owe you a thing. They don’t owe you their love. You are not entitled
to your parents’ love. You owe them. I know, it’s a bitch. I don’t like it either. I don’t like gravity.
I don’t like being tied down. Gravity doesn’t care. It’s the way it is. Until you are complete with 
your parents you can’t be yourself. Just loving them isn’t enough. You’ve got to be able to fully 
be with your parents the way they are. You know, I spent most of my life tied to my mother’s 
apron strings. And she had very long apron strings. I deserted my family. They didn’t know 
where I was. Gone for years. I was still my mother’s little boy. I didn’t grow up till I was thirty 
something.
Here Erhard acknowledged a nineteen-year-old participant who had shared about his relationship
with his parents for being complete with them at an early age.
ERHARD (continuing)
I don’t know if you can see it or not, but until that happens you aren’t anything but your moth-
er’s little boy.
Erhard left the room at this point, and Wes took the platform.
WES
We’re now in the bonus category. This goes beyond The Forum. Look at your relationship with
your parents from the question: “Are they really all right with me?” What do you have to get off  
with them? Being complete never leaves anybody with something dumped on them. Use the din-
ner break to complete with your parents.  Find a telephone. Reach them. If your parents are not 
alive, fi nd someone with whom you are incomplete and complete with them. Is anybody unclear?
As Erhard returned to the room, Jane, a teenage participant, rose and spoke, her manner very shy 
and serious.
of the they-self governs. As participants share and disclose their 
stories, as they own up to and appropriate the ways they wound 
up being (owning their “thrownness”—see the next sidebar), and
further, as they grasp and admit the harm that justifying these
ways of being has wrought: the “social mood” of profound aff inity 
gets evoked. ■
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 172 ===

=== PAGE 173 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session Three 
159
JANE
I don’t understand about being complete with your parents.
WES
Are your parents all right with you the way they are?
JANE
Yeah.
WES
So what’s the problem?
ERHARD (gently)
Jane, there’s something going on with you about your parents, isn’t there?  
JANE (very tentative)
I don’t know. 
ERHARD
Does it feel like there is?
JANE
Yeah.
ERHARD
So what’s going on?
JANE
I don’t know. Something from the past?
ERHARD
Is there something that feels badly for you?
JANE
Yeah.
ERHARD
What is it?
JANE
The only thing I can think of is my stepmom, the way they brought her into my life.
THROWNNESS
Thrownness is a central Heideggerian term that Werner Erhard uses
extensively in responding to the first question of The Forum: What
is the Being of human beings? 
In Being and Time, thrownness is a fundamental aspect of 
Dasein’s existence; Erhard calls it “the default clearing” for human 
beings (Author notes, Intro to 6-Day LA 1989). “In thrownness,” 
says Heidegger “it is revealed that in each case Dasein, as my 
Dasein and this Dasein, is already in a definite world and alongside 
a definite range of definite entities within-the-world” (BT 264
T
). 
Thrownness determines Dasein’s options in life, and there are no
others: “As something thrown, Dasein has been thrown into exis-
tence. It exists as an entity which has to be as it is and as it can be”
(BT 321
T
), and further, “it has been brought into its ‘there,’ but not
of its own accord” (BT 329
T
).
The word “thrownness” expresses the way we wound up
being, the way we find ourselves to always already be: thrownness
determines what we automatically are, and it limits our future 
possibilities (what we “can be”). It is the ontological clearing which
Being has sent in our time. “We’ve got only the possibility which 
we inherited,” says Erhard, “the possibility into which we were
thrown—we’re thrown to be this particular way, we’re thrown into 
this kind of being that has this particular set of options” (“The
Heart of the Matter”).
Heidegger says that these options are not objective brute facts 
about the environment into which we are thrown; that would be the 
factuality of the situation, and we might discover those facts if we
y
looked for them. But Dasein’s thrownness “is meant to suggest the 
facticity of its being delivered-over” (BT 174). We live in the facticity, the
T
way we
y
wound up being, and not the factuality; we don’t see the raw 
data of the environment, we see a story about the world. This is our 
y
facticity: that we are thrown, and that our thrownness is not deter-
mined by the things or circumstances “out there.” Rather it is char-
acteristic of Dasein’s way of Being-in-the-world. Dasein has wound
up whatever way it wound up being, and to perpetuate itself, Dasein 
must avoid owning up to what it costs to self-justify this thrown way
of being. From the point of view of the way we 
y
wound up being, then,


=== END OF PAGE 173 ===

=== PAGE 174 ===

160
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
So let’s talk about that a bit. What happened?
JANE
My dad came home with her. He was gone for a while, and he said “this is your mom.” That’s it. 
No questions.
ERHARD
And what did you say to yourself?
JANE
Fine.
ERHARD
Did you? Did you stuff  it?
JANE
Well I thought that maybe he brought her in so that I would have a mom, ’cause my parents got
a divorce, and then two months later my real mom died. And I feel like he brought her into my 
life.
ERHARD
Is what you’re feeling badly about...
JANE
But my mom loves me. I’m glad for half the things she does. But at the time I thought, “she’s 
such a bitch, why is she doing this?” And I wanted to just run away. Now I realize she loved me, 
and that she wasn’t trying to replace my real mom.
ERHARD
Good. It doesn’t mean that your mother is not weird. Because we’re all weird, right, you’ve seen
that in here. But your mother loves you, and she’s weird. With your mother, it’s got to be that 
she’s all right just like she is. I didn’t say she was right to be the way she is. My mother didn’t do 
the stupid things she did with me because she loved me. She did the stupid things she did with
me because she was stupid. And she loved me. It’s not that she was right. So you’ve got a little
bit of a ploy in there about making your mother right for the way she is, you all. So, any better 
sense of what that sadness is? Does it have to do with your mother and father’s divorce?
JANE
I don’t remember that.
ERHARD
Does it have to do with your mother dying?
ontological inquiry—the kind of speaking that evokes Being—occurs 
as something to turn away from, to try to leap over. 
Indeed, Heidegger is emphatic about the centrality of our 
facticity in determining our existence. Our mood, our state-of-
mind, the way we understand our world—from the phenomeno-
logical perspective—those are the facts: “[M]ood brings Dasein 
before the ‘that-it-is’ of its ‘there,’ which, as such, stares it in 
the face with the inexorability of an enigma.” Even if Dasein 
strives for “rational enlightenment,” tries for a detached stand-
point, and tells himself that, really, it’s just a mood—“all this
counts for nothing as against the phenomenal facts of the case”
(BT 175
T
).
Hubert Dreyfus, in his reading of Being and Time, chooses to
translate Heidegger’s Befindlichkeit as aff ectedness rather than state-
t
of-mind. The latter phrase, he feels, suggests a private subjective 
mental state, when what Heidegger is distinguishing is Dasein’s 
“being found in a situation where things and options already matter” 
(Being In The World 168). This is an important point. In our thrown-
d
ness, things are encountered as already and always meaningful:
Letting something be encountered is primarily
circumspective; it is not just sensing some-
thing, or staring at it. It implies circumspec-
tive concern, and has the character of becom-
ing aff ected in some way. . . . Being-in as such 
has been determined existentially beforehand
in such a manner that what it encounters
within-the-world can “matter” to it in this
way. (BT 176)
“
Heidegger’s point is that our moods, like our states of mind, are 
not the subjective individual phenomena found in a Cartesian 
model of human being. For Heidegger, a mood “comes neither 
from the ‘outside’ or ‘inside,’ but arises out of Being-in-the-world, 
as a way of such Being” (BT 176
T
). 
Our thrown way of being is not one that we could make
explicit or theorize. It is not based upon beliefs, and human 


=== END OF PAGE 174 ===

=== PAGE 175 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session Three 
161
JANE
I remember that, but I remember more my stepmom coming into my life. And my mom dying.
ERHARD
Did you love your real mom?
JANE
I don’t really remember. I thought I did. I don’t remember her. 
ERHARD
So is there anything incomplete with your real mother?
JANE
No.
ERHARD
You’re okay with her?
JANE
Yeah.
ERHARD
Your dad?
JANE
I’m complete with him.
ERHARD
Your stepmom?
JANE
Yeah.
ERHARD
You notice the almost stupid “not”? She didn’t have to be stupid there. Not “I guess.” And that’s
from the beginning because she just showed up and you didn’t have a chance to build a relation-
ship. Like here’s your mother. Have you built a relationship since then?
JANE
Yeah.
beings do not, for the most part, subject our everyday actions 
to analysis. We simply engage in the practices of our inherited
traditions, the tradition into which we have been thrown. But
our understanding of ourselves remains superficial: “Ontical-
ly, of course, Dasein is not only close to us—even that which
is closest. We are it, each of us, we ourselves. In spite of this,
or rather for just this reason, it is ontologically that which is 
farthest” (BT 36
T
).
Dreyfus has proposed examples of the way we inherit 
elements of this thrownness. A Japanese mother comforts her 
baby in the manner of her culture, in quiet and soothing ways, 
while her American counterpart stimulates her baby into more
active and vocal behaviors. These parenting choices are, in large 
part, unconscious on the part of the mothers; they are simply
reproducing their cultures’ ways of being. Nevertheless, by
the time the infants are three to four months of age, they have 
already learned to be Japanese and American infants (Being In 
The World 17). In another example, Dreyfus proposes that all of 
d
the implicit but important rules governing nonverbal behaviors, 
which differ widely among cultures—such aspects of proxemics
as the appropriate distance to stand from others, the relative
desirability of direct eye contact, or the situational expectations 
regarding touch—are learned by unconscious observation as we 
mature within a culture (Being in the World 18). These rules be-
come inculcated long before we might explicitly reflect on them,
and by then, Dasein’s everyday existence is already determined
factically, along with the social moods that shape our options 
for being with others in the world.
It is important here to note that thrownness, like other 
ideas introduced by Heidegger to distinguish Dasein’s existence,
should not be interpreted as a negative state of Being. Given its
apparent limitations, this is counterintuitive, and challenging for 
us to think. But such paradoxical languaging is crucial to under-
standing the thinking of both Heidegger and Erhard. Negative
conditions naturally lead to the human impulse...to “fix” them, 
but both Heidegger and Werner Erhard propose a more unortho-
dox response. ■


=== END OF PAGE 175 ===

=== PAGE 176 ===

162
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
So what’s incomplete there?
JANE
I don’t know. I have a relationship with her. But I don’t know what’s incomplete.
ERHARD
How old were you when she became your mother?
JANE
Four, or fi ve, or six.
ERHARD
Did you lose something back there?
JANE
Back when I was a kid?
ERHARD
Yeah.
JANE
Maybe I lost some respect for my dad.
ERHARD
I’m going to tell you a story and I want you to look inside the story and see what’s there for you. 
Children have a bond of belonging and sometimes that gets broken. There’s this bond between
your parents and you, and then it gets broken. Did that happen for you?
JANE
I don’t think so.
ERHARD
Did it happen back then?
JANE
I don’t know.
ERHARD
Did you have a bond with your dad?
JANE
Yeah and she broke it.


=== END OF PAGE 176 ===

=== PAGE 177 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session Three 
163
ERHARD
Okay that’s what happened and that’s what you’re sad about. You had a bond with your father,
and just her presence broke that bond. What did you decide?
JANE
That I had to break the bond between them, her and me? Tell her how I feel. And tell her how I 
felt that she came.
ERHARD
That’s not a strange way for a little girl to feel, now is it? 
JANE
No.
ERHARD
But for a mature woman, that’s clearly not what happened, is it?
JANE
I don’t understand.
ERHARD
Looking from your point of view now, did your father’s marriage break the bond between you
and your dad?
JANE
No.
ERHARD
Can you get off  it with your stepmom about breaking the bond between you and your dad?
JANE
Yeah.
ERHARD
So maybe you could say to your stepmom that when I was a little girl, I didn’t even realize it un-
til I saw it today, but there’s been something in the relationship between you and I. “When I was
a little girl and you came into my life, it felt like you had broken my bond with my father, but 
now I see that that isn’t true. So that’s not between you and me any more. I can be fully related
to you.” How does that feel?
JANE
But I’m still sad. I don’t know what it’s about. 


=== END OF PAGE 177 ===

=== PAGE 178 ===

164
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
Whatever that’s about will come up before we’re through. You know you’ve got to be a big per-
son to have the kind of conversation we just had?
Erhard had been very gentle during this entire interaction, standing very close to Jane. Kipp then
proceeded to do the seminar program enrollment.
ERHARD (to the group)
For the dinner break there are two assignments. Observe and inquire into the real nature of 
your relating to other people. What’s really going on with you when you’re relating to other
people? As you’re being with people, what’s really going on with you? And two, after dinner, I
invite you to have a conversation about the seminar program.
The Forum adjourned for a dinner break.


=== END OF PAGE 178 ===

=== PAGE 179 ===



=== END OF PAGE 179 ===

=== PAGE 180 ===

166
SPEAKING BEING
FORUM DAY TWO: SESSION FOUR
The Forum resumed at 9:10 pm, following the dinner break. Kipp was on the
platform with Erhard, and asked for questions in response to the break assignment
to have a conversation about the seminar program. After Kipp fi elded these ques-
tions, Erhard came forward.
ERHARD
I know it’s possible to turn this into another thing you’ve done in your life.
In independent surveys, most people say it was the most, or a very, signifi -
cant experience in their life. The way you determine what’s possible is by the
conversation that you are. This was not designed as another seminar. This was 
not designed to help you get better. This was not designed to improve you. We
could have done that with a lot less time and eff ort. You want to be here for 
something extraordinary. You want to be here for the possibility that this could 
make the diff erence in your life. This was designed to make the diff erence in 
your life. Now with regard to this seminar business: See, I don’t like this con-
versation. What is so strange about doing something about who you are reg-
ularly? I go to the dentist regularly, do something for my teeth regularly. This
is extraordinary stuff . If what happened in this room before the break didn’t
move you, didn’t touch you... if that didn’t turn you on, this is not a great thing 
for you to do. But if this speaks to you, this is a very appropriate place for you. 
So we’re going to talk to you about the seminar program. You have the power
to decline. This is a very easy conversation to pay attention to if you’re clear 
about the fact that you’ve got the power to decline.
During this conversation Erhard came down from the platform and moved around
among the group.
(continuing)
How many of you have had some major impact in your life out of the two days
so far?
A majority of the participants stood. 
(continuing)
This is a part of The Forum. You know that form you fi lled out this morning?
That’s a part of The Forum.
(indicating Kipp)
He’s not like you. He’s not hanging out. Kipp is up to something. It looks 
like we’re doing one Forum. We’re really doing fi ve hundred diff erent Fo-
rums because each person brings something diff erent to it. You don’t know 
what you are. You only know what you were. If you give yourself a future
based on what you were, that’s not very powerful, is it?  We want to give you
the power to create a future not given to you by the past.
PARTICIPANT
Isn’t that artifi cial?
ERHARD
Yes, in a certain sense it’s artifi cial, in that you can’t predict it. But in a certain 
sense isn’t everything that’s created artifi cial? I have a little rule in my relation-
ships. Don’t ever do anything you don’t want to do. I’ve got another rule: ride 
the horse in the direction it’s going. They’re the same rule.
(loudly)
Because nobody ever does anything they don’t want to do... “I don’t want to be
here” is a racket. Did you ever see Karate Kid?  That was coaching. That’s what
?
happens in seminars.
At this point Wes moved forward on the platform. Erhard remained in the room, 
strolling around in the aisles.
WES
We’re going to take a deeper look at the distinction racket. You have to be lis-
tening from the question, what is the distinction racket and what is my racket? 
Try on the possibility that your racket is both something put out there and
something covering up.
ERHARD
You don’t need to see what happened... Here’s all that’s important: my racket
is, the payoff  is, the cost is. Wes is going through the other stuff  with people
so you can see more of the racket that underlies that. But you don’t gotta get
what happened in order to gain some freedom from your racket.
(pausing
(
)
Lots of people are trying to get better. And it’s a racket. If you’re trying to get
better, it’s all right if you don’t produce results. There are certain relationships 
between payoff s and costs. Avoiding responsibility and stifl ed self-expression
are almost invariably related.
WES
Selfi sh lives in your mouth. Or, more rigorously, in your conversation... Selfi sh 
is in your listening... That’s the location of your racket. Your racket is a conver-
sation. The point of the conversation is on the board (i.e., racket payoff s). It’s 


=== END OF PAGE 180 ===

=== PAGE 181 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: Session Four 
167
never going to get any better. You’re never going to not have your racket. Nev-
er. And there’s no hope. Nothing in life is so good as being right. As a matter of 
fact, people will give up their whole lives to be right. How many people on the
dinner break called and reached someone in your life and got complete?
About one hundred people raised their hands.
As the second day of The Forum neared its end, assistants distributed homework
assignments to the participants.
WES
Here’s your assignment for this evening. First, consider inquiring into what’s 
driving your relationship with other people.  Second, write a letter to some-
one you know.  Here’s the form: I came to The Forum to accomplish...; what I
actually am accomplishing is; I plan to use The Forum in... Twenty-fi ve people 
were late this morning.  Cut the crap.
The second day of The Forum concluded. 


=== END OF PAGE 181 ===

=== PAGE 182 ===

168
SPEAKING BEING
for its own why. The question “Why the Why?” looks externally 
and at first like a frivolous repetition of the same interroga-
tive, which can go on forever; it looks like an eccentric and
empty rumination about insubstantial meanings of words.
Certainly that is how it looks. The only question is whether we
are willing to fall victim to this cheap look of things and thus 
take the whole matter as settled or whether we are capable 
of experiencing a provocative happening in this recoil of the 
why-question back upon itself. (IM 6)
M
END OF DAY TWO INTERVAL
The Forgetting of Being, Part Two of Eight:  Questioning
The Forum is an inquiry. It is a process of asking questions, not providing informa-
tion. The value of the process arises in the questioning itself. This is questioning of a 
radically diff erent nature than we are accustomed to. “To pronounce the interroga-
tive sentence, even in a questioning tone, is not yet to question,” says Heidegger; he 
continues:
“
If I say to you “Why are there beings at all instead of nothing?”
then the intent of my asking and saying is not to communicate 
to you that a process of questioning is now going on inside me. 
Certainly the spoken interrogative sentence can also be taken
this way, but then one is precisely not hearing the question-
ing. The questioning does not result in any shared question-
ing and self-questioning. It awakens nothing in the way of a
questioning attitude, or even a questioning disposition. For 
this consists in a willing to know. . . . Questioning is willing-to-
know. (IM 23)
M
In this passage Heidegger distinguishes a questioning state of mind, a standing-
in-the-question that at the same time wills itself forward into the opening of the 
question—a dialogic engagement in the questioning process, a listening which par-
ticipates in the questioning advance along with the questioner. This possibility of the
listener’s thinking-Being along with the questioner will be seen to be an important
element of The Forum.
Despite the fact that the question of Being never elicits an answer, the question-
ing itself—“a distinctive occurrence that we call a happening” (IM 6)—is a transforma-
tive experience. This is because “the question of Being must be asked of Being about
Being from within Being” (BT 24), and therefore is in its essence reflexive:
T
“
 The why-question challenges beings as a whole, so to speak, 
outstrips them, though never completely. But this is precisely 
how the question gains its distinction. What is asked in the 
question rebounds upon the questioning itself, for the ques-
tioning challenges beings as a whole, but does not aft er all 
wrest itself free from them. . . . It runs up against the search 
A body of scholarship has noted the aff inities between the thinking of Heidegger 
and that of Zen (e.g., Steff ney (1977), Kotoh (1987) and Storey (2012)). Heidegger’s 
attention here to the possibilities of an apparently tautological question recalls the 
use in Rinzai Zen of seemingly nonsensical koans (What is the sound of the one hand
clapping?) to eff ect a transformation in thinking.
But the locus of the transformation is not the thinking of the questioners; nor 
are the circumstances themselves altered. Rather, in the questioning itself, every 
secure foothold is lost (IM 32). In that moment, the possibility of new understand-
ings emerges. 
This power of the question of Being to undermine foundations is central to the 
process of The Forum. Erhard’s ontological inquiry is constructed upon two funda-
mental questions: What is the Being of human beings? and What is the possibility of 
Being for human beings? The first question undermines the foundation; the second
?
moves toward the creation of new understandings. Both are essential and distinct 
elements of the same questioning movement. It is this modulation of questionable-
ness into possibility that Heidegger addresses here:
“
 Our questioning just opens up the domain so that beings
can break open in such questionworthiness. . . . Yet, it is this
questioning that pushes us into the open, provided that it it-
self, as a questioning, transforms itself (as does every genuine
questioning), and casts a new space over and through every-
thing. (IM 33)
M
The situation is not changed through questioning; its possibility is transformed.
But questioning, according to translator J. Glenn Gray, was not for Heidegger a
codified procedure:


=== END OF PAGE 182 ===

=== PAGE 183 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Two: End of Day Two Interval 
169
“
 Putting in question is not primarily a method for him as it was 
for Descartes and for his teacher Husserl. At least it is not a
method in the sense that one uses it as a preliminary to build-
ing up a body of doctrine aft er tearing down earlier systems.
No, for Heidegger questioning is a way or path of thinking 
which each one must clear for himself with no certain desti-
nation in mind. (WCT xiii)
T
The seeking of answers is so basic to the scholarly calling that conceiving such a 
questioning attitude is problematic, and maintaining that attitude more so:
“ 
 Being able to question means being able to wait, even for a 
lifetime. But an age for which the actual is only whatever goes 
fast and can be grasped with both hands takes questioning as 
a “stranger to reality,” as something that does not count as 
profitable. But what is essential is not counting but the right 
time—that is, the right moment and the right endurance.
For the mindful god
Does detest
Untimely growth.
—Hölderlin, fragment from the period of “The Titans” (IV, 218).
V
 
(IM 229-230)
M


=== END OF PAGE 183 ===

=== PAGE 184 ===



=== END OF PAGE 184 ===

=== PAGE 185 ===

Forum Day Three: Session One
171
SPEAKING 
BEING
DAY THREE
Day three of The Forum began at 9:00 am, with The Forum leader, Kipp, on the platform asking 
participants to share about the assignment from the previous evening: to share their experience of 
The Forum with someone in their lives.
KIPP
When you talk about what happened, people are left, and you’re left, with whatever description 
gives you. We’re going to call that domain of speaking “up in the stands.” Does talking to the 
person next to us about what’s down on the court impact the game? Now I’m asking you to get 
on the court and share from being on the court. Here’s how it starts: “Who were you with?” 
“You said what?” “What did they say?” 
Wearing a dark gray sweater-vest with black slacks, Erhard appeared in the back of the room, 
watching the interaction. 
BETTY
I phoned my brother last night, and I told him, in the beginning of him harassing me to make a 
decision of being here, that I wasn’t sure of... that I blamed him...
KIPP
You said you blamed him?
BETTY
I said I blamed him. This is the conversation that we had. “I blamed you Bob for me being here 
because I didn’t want to be here. It’s your fault and I hate you for it.” 
KIPP (to the group)
You’re right there with her because she’s not talking about sharing, she’s sharing. You’re right 
there on the phone with her. Then what did you tell him?
BETTY
I told him that I was sorry for how I felt, that I had no right to feel that way, that I was the one 
who was wrong and selfi sh.
KIPP
And he said?
BETTY
He said that he loved me, and that the reason that he wanted me here was because it would be 
good for me. And I told him that I didn’t want to see it from his point of view; to see it from my 
point of view, and it took me to get through yesterday to realize that. I got through that point. 
I realized it. I’m here. It’s great for me. And I told him that I appreciated him for making that 
decision for harassing me. 
FORUM DAY THREE 
SESSION ONE


=== END OF PAGE 185 ===

=== PAGE 186 ===

172
SPEAKING BEING
KIPP
Whether it’s convincing you or harassing you, neither ever happened. In the sense of what 
happened, your brother spoke to you. 
BETTY
In a sense it didn’t and in another sense it did. 
KIPP
It’s called describing it. He spoke to you. 
(to the group)
What she just shared with you just about never happens after two days of anything in your life. 
This isn’t a new situation; this is, however, many years between her and her brother and two 
days. It’s hard to be present to that; it’s hard to see because it seems like two years. 
BETTY
I hated being here the fi rst two days. 
KIPP
No you didn’t... You had those thoughts. Did you have anything to do with any of those 
thoughts? 
BETTY
No.
KIPP
No. It was like the rain.
BETTY
It was like the rain.
KIPP
Stop identifying with the rain.
ERHARD (entering the conversation)
He’s making a slightly diff erent point, and it would be useful for everybody to get it. That’s not 
you thinking. The stuff  going on in your head is not yours. It doesn’t belong to you. You didn’t 
invent it, or generate it. It’s thoughts you’re having. I want you to be able to think that what’s 
going on when you’re thinking is not you thinking. You’re having thoughts. It thinks. I’m having 
the thoughts it thinks. In the book, The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat—there was such 
a man—he actually thought his wife was a hat. And you mistake it thinking for you thinking. 
Not you personally. People mistake it thinking for them thinking just like the guy who mistook 
his wife for a hat. You have to do some thinking to get that. It thinks, and you have the thoughts 
that it thinks. You want to stop being so entangled in your thinking. You want to be able to 
IN-ORDER-TO
Here Erhard is characterizing the current clearing for Being as 
calculative—as technological—wherein everything is placed in 
reserve, standing by, ready to be used—everything including our 
selves (please see the series of sidebars on technology during the
third and final session of Day Four). Since we have not recognized
the technological clearing as a paradigm, a particular way of being 
which we have been sent, we see it as simply the way things—
including our selves—are. The in-order-to of standing-reserve, not 


=== END OF PAGE 186 ===

=== PAGE 187 ===

Forum Day Three: Session One
173
stand back a bit and watch it think. You think you’re limited to what it thinks. But that’s it 
thinking. It has thought you into a lot of pain and suff ering, unhappiness, and dissatisfaction. 
And it has a purpose, like a machine. It is designed in-order-to. It is not designed in order 
to leave you with love, fulfi llment, and full self-expression. Have you got any idea what it’s 
designed in-order-to? It’s designed in order to make you look good. That’s its design function.
(in the aisle among the group)
And it uses thinking and feeling, interpretations, what you believe to be true, in order to make 
you look good. It utilizes and organizes those elements and generates those elements in a form 
designed to make you look good. What does it mean to look good? Well, specifi cally, it means 
to make you right and others wrong, to foster your dominating and to avoid the domination 
of anything else. And it uses your thinking and your feelings, and your perceptions and your 
interpretations, conclusions, etc., to justify yourself; except yourself and it have become one. 
You have identifi ed with it. You are an it; you are an anybody. What makes you an anybody 
is you identify with it. You identify with its thinking and its feeling, and that makes you an 
anybody, and the costs are love, happiness, and self-expression. It thinks and you have its 
thoughts, and it thinks in order to make you look good, and what it costs you to identify with it 
is love, happiness, vitality, and self-expression. 
BETTY
I think the thing that hit me the strongest was the racket. When I could identify my racket and 
my reason for allowing things to take place in my life and receive the cost that I received from it, 
was the identifi cation of breaking through the barrier of all of this. I felt like this ton of bricks 
was lifted from my shoulders, being able to acknowledge that. And I realize what I was doing...
ERHARD
See—hold on. It doesn’t think like that. What she’s speaking doesn’t have anything to do with 
looking good, does it? As a matter of fact if you were real concerned with looking good you 
would never say what she just said. You can’t say what she just said without thinking, because it 
might make you look bad. Go on.
BETTY
I realized the cost that I was paying for the racket I was having. 
ERHARD
Running. You run a racket.
BETTY
The racket I was running. In allowing myself to be used for acceptance.
ERHARD
Kipp and I may have to go home and let her do this. That’s extraordinarily powerful to 
recognize that your life doesn’t belong to you. That it’s using your life for its purposes. And its 
confronted as the “it” which we have been sent, becomes “us.”
The “giant cybernetic system,” to use Hubert Dreyfus’ s phrase, 
has thereby been set in motion: “We don’t produce the clearing. 
The clearing produces us” (“Gaining a Free Relationship to
Technology,” Applied Heidegger Conference).
We have become both the “it” which acts in-order-to, and, as 
the they-self/identity, one of those entities which is subject to the 
in-order-to of the “it.” Erhard has summarized the result of this 
system:
“
When you are that you are the identity “I”—when
you are that you are that—and you couple that 
with what “it” is up to, you get a very powerful 
look into how this what-it’s-up-to is translated
into our everyday way of Being-in-the-world, 
into our everyday engagement with our everyday
concerns. What “it” is concerned with, once 
you are that you are it. . . what “it” is up to is 
making you right. . . and making anything else by
contrast wrong. (“The Heart of the Matter”)
In Being and Time, the in-order-to is also shown by Heidegger 
to be a central element of the existential structure of Dasein. As we 
have shown elsewhere, Dasein is always in the world in such a way
that it is concerned about things—getting them done, producing
d
them, giving them up, considering them, and so forth (BT 83–84,
T
96)—and our understanding of the world is mediated through
these concerns (see the sidebar “Concern” during Session Four 
of Day One). Heidegger calls the things we encounter in this way
equipment, and in-order-to is a characteristic of equipment: 
“
Equipment is essentially ‘something in-order-
to. . . .’ A totality of equipment is constituted
by various ways of the ‘in-order-to,’ such 
as serviceability, conduciveness, usability,
manipulability. [. . .] Dealings with equipment
subordinate themselves to the manifold 
assignments of the ‘in-order-to.’ (BT 97, 98)
T


=== END OF PAGE 187 ===

=== PAGE 188 ===

174
SPEAKING BEING
purposes are looking good--all that stuff  up on the board specifi cally--that’s what looking good 
looks like: being right, making other people and other things wrong, dominating, avoiding 
domination, justifying yourself and invalidating others, and other things. When you come to see 
that that’s what your life is being used for, you’ve gotten pretty close to the source of your self. 
You’ve gotten pretty close to the source of your identity. Pretty close to the source of that with 
which you’ve confused your self. Go on.
BETTY
He was right that I allow myself to be used for acceptance. That was the cost that I was paying. 
I didn’t enjoy the cost I was receiving. I made them wrong to be right when I was the one who 
was wrong. 
KIPP
Even though she didn’t enjoy the cost she was receiving, it was familiar. And what you call 
comfortable is what is familiar, what you are used to. She doesn’t know now how to relate to her 
brother. She knows how to relate to him before: make him wrong. But now she has to be in the 
presence of the risk...
ERHARD
She’s got to make up a relationship with her brother. That’s called “invent.” She’s got to invent a 
relationship with her brother. Another word for that is “create”: create a relationship with her 
brother. You want to think about that a little bit: The possibility of living life as a creative act, 
where you don’t have an answer when you stand in front of the canvas. What you’ve got is an 
empty canvas, possibility. You create something in the empty space of not knowing how to be 
there already. Knowing how to be there already is nothing more than the past coming around to 
meet you in the future. Sure she knows how to relate to her brother that way she’s always been. 
That’s comfortable. It’s uncomfortable to stand in front of an empty canvas. It’s uncomfortable 
because you’re at risk. You might make a fool of yourself. You might be conned. You might get 
taken advantage of. You don’t like that, visit the surgeon and get a lobotomy. 
BETTY
It doesn’t just stop at my brother.
ERHARD
Obviously it doesn’t stop at your brother. Somebody who says “I hate, I hate, I hate”—that is 
“disgruntled and unhappy” waiting-to-happen. Suppose she doesn’t have this as a way to start 
every morning? Suppose she doesn’t have that as a way to walk into work? She’ll have to create 
a way to walk into work, and create a way to walk into her relationships with her family, and 
create a way to walk into relationships with men in her life—instead of being sour to start with 
before anything happens.
BETTY
I stay sour constantly.
referentiality, a frame of reference for our understanding—a
“towards-which” for all of our/its dealings in the world. And the 
primary towards-which, says Heidegger, is always the “for-the-
sake-of-which” that Dasein itself is: “the ‘for-the-sake-of’ always
pertains to the Being of Dasein, for which, in its Being, that very
Being is essentially an issue” (BT 116–117). My concerns and my
T
actions always circle back to my own Being, always defined by
the in-order-to: “In so far as Dasein exists factically, it understands
itself in the way its ‘for-the-sake-of-itself’ is thus connected with
some current ‘in-order-to’” (BT 416).
T
One of The Forum’s central purposes is the unconcealment
of the in-order-to, which is the design function of the “it”—the 
calculative thinking which characterizes the technological clear-
ing. Erhard has pointed out that recognizing his own thrownness 
to in-order-to was central in the development of his thinking. 
During his 1971 experience of ontological insight, from which the
est Training was generated, he says:
t
“
I realized that I actually didn’t know anything. Ev-
erything that I knew had a tag on it, and the name 
of the tag was “in order to.” So I knew this in order 
to, I knew that in order to, et cetera. Everything
t
was somehow a part of a story about how it was 
going to advance me or how it could be used, or 
how it could benefit people, or whatever it might 
be. Nothing lived on its own. (Simon  37)
As we will show in the closing Interval for Day Four of The Forum,
the danger of the technological clearing, for Heidegger, is that we
are oblivious to its nature and are thus denied access to the truth 
of aletheia: “Through [the technological destining of enframing]
the other possibility is blocked,” said Heidegger, that human 
being “might rather be admitted sooner and ever more primally
to the essence of what is unconcealed and to its unconcealment 
[aletheia]” (“QCT” in BW 331).
W
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 188 ===

=== PAGE 189 ===

Forum Day Three: Session One
175
ERHARD
See, look. If she won the Nobel Prize that would be less important to her life than what she just 
said. There’s nothing more important for her to say. Because once she can own that, there’s a 
possibility beyond that. And until she can own that, there’s no possibility beyond that. All there 
is, is shucking and jiving around that: one ploy after another ploy—trying not to be that way, to 
fi nding out you are that way, giving in to being that way, making up your mind to be some other 
way, trying not to be that way, fi xing being that way—it’s all a trap like having your foot nailed 
to the fl oor and running around real fast.
BETTY
I’m going to fi x it.
KIPP
What do you mean by that? Because it’s going to be misheard.
BETTY
I’m going to fi x it by acknowledging my racket. When my racket goes to swing I’m going to 
stop it. Because I’m not going to allow myself to pay the costs, just for me to be right and make 
everyone wrong. Feel what I’m feeling. I’m going to take full control of it. 
ERHARD
Most of that’s pretty good. A little “fi x it” in there; a little “stop it” in there. Most of it is 
responsibility for it. And to the degree that she can be responsible for it, to the degree she can 
be with it—be with it and be responsible for it—these words are synonymous, by the way—to the 
degree that she can be responsible for it, to that degree she’s not limited to it. It’s not going to 
go away. That’s who she is. That’s the identity she’s built for herself. It’s gonna be there forever. 
And to the degree she can be with that, there’s a possibility beyond that. We’re too far into today 
now, so I’m going to stop talking like that.
KIPP
What you’re present to is the distinction sharing. There’s no manipulation, no in-order-to. 
That’s what sharing sounds like. This is what The Forum is about. So if you’re sitting in your 
chair, if you’re with whatever’s happening in her life with yours, if there’s a harmony, if it 
strikes a chord, then you should know that’s what this work is about. If you fi nd yourself in her 
speaking—if you fi nd yourself in your life in her life—that’s what we’re doing here. Out of her 
generosity—the truth is, out of her getting off  it—that’s what it sounds like when someone’s 
getting off  it. She had no life. What she had was hate and resentment and bitterness, and 
hate and resentment and bitterness were winning. We’re going to continue to distinguish this 
distinction “sharing.”
SUSAN 
I didn’t think you’d call on me.
Similarly, for Erhard, it is the in-order-to of the technological 
clearing which diminishes our experience of truth:
“ 
. . .if you take something which is true and add 
to it an “in order to” or even a “because” or 
a “therefore,” you’ve changed it. And you’ve 
changed it so dramatically that it’s no longer the 
truth. It’s the truth used for something—to prove
d
something, to coerce others, to be right or make 
someone else wrong. The truth used like that isn’t 
the truth any more. It’s closer to a lie—something 
pretending to be the truth. (Simon, ibid. 38, em-
phasis added)
Here we find ourselves in another instance of the reflexive thinking
that characterizes the work of both Erhard and Heidegger: even
attempts to escape in-order-to are undertaken in order to escape
in-order-to. Consequently, much of The Forum is devoted to the 
distinction of a possibility beyond in-order-to. As Forum leader 
Roger Armstrong told the Openings participants during this 1989 
Forum, “To do one thing that’s not in-order-to” could be worth the 
entire four days of The Forum. The paradox—embedded deeply in 
Heidegger’s central distinction, appropriation—is that one can get 
beyond in-order-to only by allowing and owning the inevitability of 
in-order-to. ■


=== END OF PAGE 189 ===

=== PAGE 190 ===

176
SPEAKING BEING
KIPP
That’s what you get for thinking.
SUSAN
Well I called my husband last night, and he’s the one I thought had forced me to do it. 
KIPP 
Let’s get a little more rigorous. You had the thought...
SUSAN
Right. We were recently married in October. He participated in The Forum a couple of months 
ago. When he came back from it he was so excited and he was great. He was excited about 
our relationship—which was wonderful. But what really bothered me was that he said it was 
because of The Forum. And that bugged me. My husband told me the reason he married me 
was because of The Forum. That is a bunch of garbage; “You married me because you love me, 
and there’s nobody who is making you marry me.” I went to Forum Introductory meetings and 
didn’t like it because they wanted to work on me. 
KIPP
No, you didn’t like it because you’re a creep. 
SUSAN
Right. Yesterday I was sitting in here, and all these people have these major problems. I don’t 
see a major problem in my life. And then I said, “my gosh, that’s one right there.”
KIPP (to the group)
That’s big. Some of you haven’t gotten here yet. Slow group.
SUSAN
As I developed it in my mind, I realized I got to share this, and so I put my hand up. “Now what 
if he calls on me? I have to make sure I got this all planned out to say it right.” Then I realized: 
I’m terrifi ed.  
KIPP
That’s the point. The rest was fi ll. Keep going, please.
SUSAN
The thing that I came into The Forum to accomplish was to have the ability to fi nd the right 
position. I just moved up here, and I don’t have a job yet. I wanted to wait until after the 
holidays...
KIPP
Wait. What’s true is you don’t have a job yet. 


=== END OF PAGE 190 ===

=== PAGE 191 ===

Forum Day Three: Session One
177
SUSAN
That’s right. I’m afraid I’m not going to fi nd the right position. I told him about my racket, that 
“I’m right only when it matters to you that you’re right. It doesn’t matter if either way is okay. 
But if you’re adamant about being right, then I want to be right.”
KIPP
It’s called new love. It’s a new marriage.
SUSAN
Anyway. Very diffi  cult for me.
KIPP
But that’s the important part. How diffi  cult it is. Everything that you call yourself is going to 
fi ght against it. Every justifi cation in the world is going to be there to shut up.
SUSAN
I was afraid that I would lose footing.
KIPP
That’s right. Marriage isn’t about loving, about being at risk: it’s about dominating and winning. 
SUSAN
I thought I didn’t want to dominate. I just didn’t want to be dominated. 
ERHARD (entering the conversation) 
Thanks for this Susan. Very useful conversation. Dominating and avoiding domination are two 
sides of the same mirror. It doesn’t mean be a patsy either. There’s an alternative to dominating and 
avoiding domination. There’s a possibility beyond that. And it’s not possible to see that until you 
see what it costs you to dominate or avoid domination. Most marriages are about dominating and 
avoiding domination. They’re about being right and avoiding being wrong. That’s what marriages 
are really about. They’re not about the stuff  they put in the fairy tales. And they’re always going to 
be about that because you and I didn’t make that up, we inherited that when we became human 
beings. And it’s only to the degree that you can own that, for there to be a possibility beyond that. 
What you’re doing now, looking at that and owning that, taking it on and seeing that that’s what 
owns your marriage: that starts to create the possibility of some power in the marriage. 
(pausing)
The other thing is, you want to be able to get to the point where you can be with what people 
say. Otherwise you’re going to be manipulated by what people say. See, whatever your husband 
said about The Forum: stupid. But you couldn’t be with it; it took your being away from you. 
SUSAN
He used a lot of the terminology that you used, and that drove me nuts because he acted kind of 
smug. You know he had found “it.” I hadn’t, so I had to go get “it.” 
“ 
There’s an alternative to dominating and 
avoiding domination. There’s a possibility 
beyond that. And it’s not possible to see 
that until you see what it costs you to 
dominate or avoid domination.


=== END OF PAGE 191 ===

=== PAGE 192 ===

178
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
Yes. That’s the smell of enlightenment. You want to keep your enlightenment to yourself and 
not let the smell out. What you want to share with people is empowerment, not enlightenment. 
You want to watch doing enlightenment with people, and it’s possible to empower people. 
If someone says something stupid to you—I’m not telling you how to handle this, I’m just 
illustrating that there’s a way to be with it—if somebody says something stupid to you, you can 
say, “okay, I understand exactly what you’re saying.” That gives you much more of an opening 
than “that’s stupid.” I don’t talk like this outside of here. I don’t use all this jargon outside of 
here. I use it in here because there’s a reason to. Now, you’re going to be stupid. You’re going 
to use all the terminology inappropriately. And there’s not much you can do about it. It’s hard 
not to. If we could take it back before you left here, we would, so you would just be left with 
yourself. All this stuff  in here is not signifi cant. The only thing signifi cant is you. And you can 
work your way through those things with your husband now that you’re hip to what’s going 
on. It’s a pretty exciting thing to think about the possibility of marriage beyond the games in 
marriages.
KIPP
So in sharing with your husband last night, you said?
SUSAN
I said “I’m sorry I was such a twit about signing up.”
ERHARD
A twit?
SUSAN
It’s softer language for me.
ERHARD
You cleaned it up for television.
KIPP
And he said?
SUSAN
He said “That’s all right, I love you.”
KIPP
And what was left? What were you then standing in?
SUSAN
Standing in my own decision.
“
If we could take it back before you left  
here, we would, so you would just be left  
with yourself. All this stuff  in here is not 
significant. The only thing significant
is you.


=== END OF PAGE 192 ===

=== PAGE 193 ===

Forum Day Three: Session One
179
ERHARD
And standing in the love that was there. Not a bad place to stand—talking about power. What 
you call love is not love: it’s love in-order-to; love to keep somebody around; or love to get 
something out of them; love because you need. That’s not love. When you take everything 
else away, what is left is love. When you take away “I was a twit,” and take away him being 
arrogant, what you’re left with is love for each other. And it doesn’t mean anything, but it’s 
extraordinarily powerful. And you can stand there and really make something happen in life—
like really create something worth creating. Fabulous.
SUSAN
During dinner last night I was expressing things that had bothered me before, and he said, “I 
think it should be a requirement for spouses, that when one takes it the other should take 
The Forum.” 
ERHARD
We like it to get bad fi rst, though. Makes it clearer about what you’re up to if it gets bad fi rst. 
SUSAN
I know because listening to everybody else yesterday, things they wanted to fi x, and I didn’t 
think I had anything--I just haven’t lived long enough.
ERHARD
You know, we do this with children. They’re as fucked up as you are. They’ve got all the same 
stuff  as you going on and they’re in the process of building their identity. And I’m probably one 
of the few people in the world who’s an expert on teenagers. And I know almost nothing about 
teenagers. The truth about teenagers is that they’re human. People are insulted when I say that. 
But when you live with a teenager, you’re not sure. 
 
(laughter)
The truth is that teenagers are adults. That’s hard to get, because they’re a weird kind of adult. 
They’re adults who don’t have their act together well enough to get it bought all the time. And 
it’s very painful to get called on your act. Very painful. Adults are teenagers with their act so 
well put together that they almost never get called on it. Very simple and very powerful.
SUSAN
I see that as I was looking for a job I was afraid of telling my husband for fear he might make 
me continue if it didn’t work out. 
KIPP
Yeah, don’t establish a network of support for yourself.
SUSAN
He might force me: “Just in case it doesn’t feel good you can jump right out.”


=== END OF PAGE 193 ===

=== PAGE 194 ===

180
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
Susan brought up something important about living in fear all the time. The truth you’re going 
to fi nd out today is that you live in fear all the time. It’s so pervasive that for you it’s become 
ordinary. So it’s only when you’re overwhelmed by fear that you notice that you’re frightened. 
But the fear is there all the time: “afraid I might get stuck with this”; “afraid I might get boxed 
in.” It’s there all the time. This is an experiment to see what it looks like to live in fear and don’t 
call it that. Call it “everyday living.” The more forceful you are, the more frightened you are. 
You’re just overcompensating for the fear, so to speak. Why do you suppose it takes courage? 
The more frightened you are the more courage you need. The more forceful you are the more 
frightened you are.
SUSAN
I’m not really sure. I keep being confused. My natural tendency is to want to fi x it. 
ERHARD
No, it’s not your natural tendency; it’s its natural tendency. 
SUSAN
Its natural tendency. I keep looking for something. 
ERHARD
Right, to try to fi x it. And whatever you try to fi x gets permanent-ized.
SUSAN
I can’t wait to be able to share equally with my husband.
ERHARD
Well done. Just one point about not sharing in-order-to. Sharing attracts. Looking good ensnares, 
and sharing attracts. You don’t build relationships talking about what you think. You build 
relationships by speaking yourself, and listening self; listening for the self there, not listening 
for the story there. If you listen for self, people will speak their selves. If you listen for crap, people 
will tell you their crap. If you listen for self, people will tell you their crap fi rst, but they’ll get 
around to speaking themselves.
A young man named Andy, wearing a sweatshirt with the logo “Youth at Risk” (a project of Werner 
Erhard and Associates), rose. 
ANDY
I am a lowdown mother-fucking sleeze.
ERHARD
What do you have to do with Youth at Risk?
ANDY
I work there.
“
is that you live in fear all the time. It’s
so pervasive that for you it’s become 
ordinary.


=== END OF PAGE 194 ===

=== PAGE 195 ===

Forum Day Three: Session One
181
ERHARD (to the group)
You’ve got to have advanced training to know that about yourself.
ANDY
My life’s been about being a sleaze. The question was “what do you care most about in life?” 
and I said “I care about making a diff erence with people.” And I see that isn’t it. I care about 
making a diff erence with young people and I could give a fuck about adults. And my actions 
show that. So who I am with an adult is a snake in the grass.
ERHARD
That’s pretty popular. I’m for this and the hell with everything else. That doesn’t give you any 
power with what you’re for.
ANDY (replaying a conversation he had)
So she said, “what do you get out of that?” I said, “well, I get to look good. Mr. morality. Mr. 
right. Look like I’m honest—all the good stuff  that goes along with it. It was all fun and games 
at fi rst.” “What’s the cost?” “I don’t see no cost. Maybe self-expression. Tell people what I’m 
really thinking because I’m being manipulative.” “Well what about love?” “I could give a fuck 
about love: I’ve got my family. I got all the love I need.” And then she said, “how could you do 
what you do? You fucking hurt people, you use people, you lie. How would you feel if someone 
was doing that to you all the time? And that’s all you’re doing.” And it does hurt. It hurts deep 
inside. I was denying it.
KIPP (moving closer to Andy)
You were doing what you’ve done your entire life. 
ANDY
I’m not denying it anymore. I am a sleaze.
KIPP
Being a sleaze is a nice handy phrase that doesn’t let you be present to what’s there in your life. 
ANDY
I don’t trust adults.
KIPP 
That’s a concept. “I don’t trust adults” is saying information about it. 
(clapping his hands) 
That sound is present. What’s present when you’re with adults? 
ANDY
I don’t know.


=== END OF PAGE 195 ===

=== PAGE 196 ===

182
SPEAKING BEING
KIPP
See, you got hurt, didn’t you, when you were growing up? 
ANDY 
Yeah.
KIPP
See how you said “yeah”? So today your job is to get present to your own life. And you gloss 
over it by saying you’re a sleaze. People aren’t interested in things, people are interested in you. 
We give people things, we don’t give them our selves. You’re a guy walking around with a chip 
on your shoulder, and the chip has become your life.
ANDY
Right.
ERHARD (coming forward)
Hold on, hold on a minute. A lot of people in here with a chip on their shoulder. How many 
people in here have a chip on their shoulder? I’m looking around here to see if the right hands 
are up. 
Erhard pointed out a couple of people to indicate that they needed to have their hands raised. He 
addressed one of them.
(continuing)
That costs you your beauty, you know that? You’re a beautiful woman. Nobody can see that 
with that fucking chip on your shoulder; takes your power away from you.
KIPP
Anything more?
ANDY
Just that it is so powerful.
KIPP
Right. The chip on your shoulder uses your life.
ANDY
Like a drug.
KIPP
Thank you.
(applause) 


=== END OF PAGE 196 ===

=== PAGE 197 ===

Forum Day Three: Session One
183
KIPP (to the group)
I’m inviting you to keep being present to sharing.
XAVIER
I called my girlfriend. I think I’m getting things. I kid myself about getting things, and I don’t 
know shit.
KIPP
Yeah. What do you do in life?
XAVIER
I’m a student.
KIPP
Of course, you have to be a student if you don’t know shit... Somebody that doesn’t know shit 
has to be a student—because you can’t be present to “I don’t know.” If you can get that you’re 
reporting when you’re reporting—that’s worth the four days... “I was talking about rackets” is 
reporting. “I said I was full of shit” is sharing. And what did your girlfriend say?
XAVIER 
That I was just reporting on things.
KIPP
Listen. That’s worth his four days. If you can get that you’re reporting when you’re reporting, 
it’s worth the four days. And?
XAVIER
I said that I am full of shit; I am running rackets all the time.
KIPP
She said?
XAVIER
She shared about how uncomfortable it is to be called on her rackets. It’s embarrassing.
KIPP
Being alive is embarrassing. If you don’t want to be embarrassed, stay dead. 
ERHARD
It’s embarrassing to be yourself. Ask any teenager, he’ll tell you. That’s why teenagers put an 
act together. It’s innately embarrassing to be yourself. That’s how you get to be an adult when 
you’re a teenager. You learn not to be yourself. It’s true about everybody in the room. You want 
to get that. It’s embarrassing to be yourself.


=== END OF PAGE 197 ===

=== PAGE 198 ===

184
SPEAKING BEING
KIPP
You start participating in your own life, it’s going to be awkward and embarrassing for you. It 
took about three years to train me. I was too embarrassed to be with people.
(prompting Xavier to keep sharing rather than describing) 
And you said? And she said? 
XAVIER
We broke up on Tuesday. 
KIPP
Good. Always break up before The Forum. You might get lucky in here.
(laughter)
Careful. You’re having fun. It might be a shock to your system.
(laughter)
XAVIER
I’m sitting here during The Forum having these thoughts. 
KIPP
No, the thoughts are having you. And the thoughts say?
XAVIER
I’m a worthless piece of shit. 
Kipp crossed the platform to the table, picked up a box of tissues, and used the tissues to demonstrate 
Xavier’s “thoughts” that he was “identifying with,” and “being owned by.” Kipp did this by pulling 
a tissue from the box, wafting it through the air, and inserting it into one of his nostrils, and then 
another in the other nostril, to much laughter.
KIPP (with tissues in his nostrils, regarding Xavier)
And you go?
XAVIER
I’ll never amount to anything.
KIPP (fi lling both ears with tissues; laughter)
And the next thought? 
XAVIER
It’s hopeless. 


=== END OF PAGE 198 ===

=== PAGE 199 ===

Forum Day Three: Session One
185
KIPP (covering his head with a tissue; laughter)
This is what you’ve been calling you.
XAVIER
I see the payoff s and the costs, but now what?
KIPP
Two more days, that’s what.
Xavier sat down looking considerably lighter than when he had stood up. Another participant, Edna, 
stood next.
EDNA
When I came in here I had a bag of negatives with me.
KIPP
“A bag of negatives” is a description. 
EDNA
I didn’t want to be here. I have six children and grandchildren in this Forum. I thought we were 
all going to do The Forum together. It didn’t take me long to realize that they were going to do 
their Forum and I was going to do my Forum. I kept looking for where in the room my family 
was. At one point, I saw my son walking toward the door. I feared for his and my looking good. I 
realized how much looking good had been running my life. It’s not anymore. 
KIPP
It is anymore. It is there. But you’ve got some choice now in how it uses you.
 
(to the group)
What you’re listening to is a mother whose children became trophies.
ERHARD
Like all mothers: you lose yourself. You become your children. Let me tell you something: you 
have very little to do with the way your children grow up. Look at yourself. You did it the way 
you wanted to do it. But everyone has bullshit about “They made me.” Kids like to eat. “If you 
want to eat in this house, do this and this and this. If you don’t want to eat, do something else.” 
I told my son, “I don’t feed you because I love you. It’s against the law not to feed you.” You 
lose yourself and become your children. The single most important thing you have to give your 
children is your own well-being, and make sure they don’t get in the way. They may not use it 
wisely, but your self is what you’ve got to give them. The one thing I could never get away from 
with my mother was who she was. But I forgot everything she told me.
EDNA
They didn’t know the reason for me wanting them to look good: so that I would look good.
AWAKENING ATTUNEMENTS
Werner Erhard has consistently denied that his work is 
appropriately characterized by the term philosophy. But he
has issued this denial in a cultural context where philosophy is 
generally regarded as a purely academic pursuit, in which one
studies the thinking of great thinkers in order to gain knowledge 
and perhaps thereby to attain wisdom. 
The people who direct this study are professors of philosophy, 
but are rarely considered publicly to be themselves philosophers; 
our culture has no clear or off icial requirements for that desig-
nation. The academic process generally entails learning about
philosophy, not doing philosophy. This is not necessarily the
aim of the professors, but arises from the constricting assump-
tions of the current paradigm that structures the processes of 
acquiring knowledge within academic settings. Given this way of 
understanding the term “philosophy,” it clearly does not describe 
Erhard’s methodology. 
But certainly, as Erhard has acknowledged, his work does 
address many of the concerns of philosophy (“The Heart of the
Matter”), concerns that are likewise central in the work of Martin
Heidegger, who is considered as off icial a “philosopher” as anyone 
from the twentieth century. In Germany during the prime of his
career, between 1920 and the 1960s, Heidegger was immersed 
in a culture that revered both the academic system itself and in
particular the academic discipline of philosophy. In responding to
this opportunity, he rose to pre-eminence as an academic and as a 
philosopher. (Please see Michael E. Zimmerman’s Aft erword to this 


=== END OF PAGE 199 ===

=== PAGE 200 ===

186
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
If you were going to design a universe you would not design growing up like people do it. But 
that’s the way it is. It’s messy. The single most important issue between parents and children is 
that they love each other. And that’s almost never the discussion. It doesn’t make you a better 
person to clean your room. The point is to have a little straightness in the conversation. It’s a 
diffi  cult process at best. There are no experts on raising children. No one has the code. It’s very 
powerful what Edna is talking about. You’ve got to keep getting off  it with your children too. 
The interesting thing about kids: if you get off  it with them, they’ll get off  it with you. When 
you’re being straight with them, it occurs to them they might be straight with you. Great, Edna. 
Good stuff , really good stuff .
(turning to the group)
Where’s Jane? 
The young woman who had spoken the previous day (Day Two, Session Four) about her father and 
stepmother stood. 
ERHARD
What happened to sad? 
JANE
I don’t know.
ERHARD
Do you really not know, or do you not want to talk about it?
JANE
I think I was sad because... it was all up here. I was scared so much.
ERHARD
What do you mean “I think”?
JANE
I know.
ERHARD
What you’re saying is “I was feeling emotional because I was standing up in front of a group of 
people.” What happened that you feel that way? Don’t say “I don’t know” ever again.
JANE
Something that happened that I don’t remember.
ERHARD
Can you remember a time when you stood up in front of a group of people?
book to provide further context concerning questionable political 
judgments of Heidegger the “man,” which put at risk the substan-
tial innovations and contributions of Being and Time and of his
other writings.)
The contribution and innovation of Heidegger’s thinking that 
is central to our study includes his particular path of thinking,
a path that reached beyond the academic context in which he 
worked and thrived, and into the domain of ontology. Working
persistently in this domain for more than five decades, he strove to 
honor the discipline of philosophy by committing his life to under-
mining its foundational concepts.
Embedded throughout his many published volumes is a per-
spective on philosophy, and its relation to language, that strongly 
resonates with Werner Erhard’s approach to ontological inquiry.
In the lectures published as The Fundamental Concepts of Meta-
physics, for example, Heidegger is elusive regarding philosophy’s
nature. Philosophy is
“
not some mere gathering of knowledge that we 
can easily obtain for ourselves any time from 
books, but (we know this only obscurely) some-
thing to do with the whole, something extreme,
where an ultimate pronouncement and interlocu-
tion occurs on the part of human beings. (FCM 4,
M
emphasis added).
He is emphatic on one point: “Philosophy is philosophizing. . . .
It itself is only whenever we are philosophizing.” Philosophy 
emerges in acts of languaging; and if it is authentic philosophy, it 
emerges newly in each iteration, “however much we seem merely 
to be repeating the same thing” (FCM 4). Frequently in The Forum, 
Erhard calls out the participants whom he hears codifying their 
experiences as beliefs. Authentic philosophy rips space open newly 
in every articulation; it is philosophizing that never calcifies into 
philosophy. 
Further, Heidegger suggested the direction that philosophical
dialogue should move in the current epoch. The task concerns at-
tunements, which are ways of being open to the world. A human be-
ing is never just open; we are always open in some particular way. 


=== END OF PAGE 200 ===

=== PAGE 201 ===

Forum Day Three: Session One
187
JANE
Last summer at a camp.
ERHARD
What happened?
JANE
Everybody had to say their problem out in the open and I didn’t want to do it. They kept asking 
over and over until I did.
ERHARD
Can you remember a time before that speaking in front of a group of people?
JANE
I didn’t.
ERHARD
What about in school?
JANE
I never talked in school. I sat in the back.
ERHARD
When were you frightened about standing up?
JANE
In the fourth grade.
ERHARD  
What happened in the fourth grade? 
JANE
Well my fi rst year of fourth grade I had to stay back. And most of the people—well this is my 
story—made fun of me for staying back, and said I was stupid.
ERHARD
How do you do in school?
JANE
Fine. I get good grades.
ERHARD
Are you happy in school?
“
Our fundamental task now consists of awakening 
a fundamental attunement in our philosophizing. 
I deliberately say: in our philosophizing, not in
r
some arbitrary philosophizing nor even in phi-
losophy in itself, for there is no such thing. It is a 
matter of awakening a fundamental attunement
which is to sustain our philosophizing, and not
the fundamental attunement. Accordingly, there 
is not merely one single attunement, but several. 
(FCM 59)
The task that Heidegger proposes is the distinguishing of the 
fundamental attunements that, unrecognized, generate human 
thinking. His purpose here is not to ascertain these attunements, 
since that term implies objective knowing (i.e., the stance of a sub-
ject whose goal is to learn about something separate from itself),
but that I am never separate from my attunements:
“
Perhaps such a thing as the fundamental attune-
ment we are seeking is precisely something that 
cannot be ascertained in this way by an inquiry. It 
could be that it pertains to ascertaining an attune-
ment not merely that one has the attunement, 
but that one is attuned in accord with it. (FCM 60, 
M
emphasis added)
To know an attunement, then, requires
w
entering it.
Such inquiry makes a special demand of the inquirer, a
demand always present in ontological inquiry, and one that has
made scholarly or scientific studies of Werner Erhard’s work 
problematic. Central to The Forum’s promise is the possibility of 
choosing an authentic existence; but participants—even those
with scholarly credentials—cannot ascertain whether that result 
has been produced by hearing about the experiences of others in 
The Forum, or even by observing their behaviors. In this domain 
of knowing, the evidence lies in one’s own lived experience; and to 
further challenge scientific inquiry, it is in the nature of one’s lived
experience that what it means is up to you. 


=== END OF PAGE 201 ===

=== PAGE 202 ===

188
SPEAKING BEING
JANE
No.
ERHARD
Would you like to be happy in school?
JANE
Yeah. Well, I feel if I was happier about being in school I’d get better grades.
ERHARD
Okay. You’d also be happier in life.
JANE
Yeah.
ERHARD
What happened in the fourth grade?
JANE
The biggest thing I remember is I asked people to come to my birthday party, and no one 
showed up for it.
ERHARD
What did you decide when nobody showed up?
JANE
That no one liked me.
ERHARD
I want you to be right there—back in the fourth grade. You didn’t merely decide “nobody likes 
me.” You became “nobody likes me.” You’ve been living over top of “nobody likes me.” And 
when nobody likes you, it’s threatening to stand up in front of a group. Do you get that?
JANE
Yeah.
ERHARD
Is it true that nobody likes you?
JANE
No.
ERHARD
How old are you when you’re in the fourth grade?
The scientific mind boggles; but these principles lie at the
heart of a phenomenological approach to knowing, such as those 
of Heidegger and Erhard: you must yourself be fully available for 
the outcome; and the insight of the transformational Augenblick is
that the meaning of my life is determined by the stand I take on it. 
But I must first take a stand. 
¥
Attunements are already always there. I am never not attuned
in some way to the world; there is never a naked “I” which sub-
sequently becomes attuned. We are attuned from inception, but
without being conscious of our attunement. This is tricky territory.
“
We speak, aft er all, of the unconscious. In one re-
spect it is at hand, and yet in another respect it is
not at hand, namely insofar as it is not conscious.
This strange ‘at hand and yet at the same time not
at hand’ arises from the possibility of being con-
scious of something unconscious. (FCM 61)
M
Attunements live in the realm that Werner Erhard calls what we 
don’t know that we don’t know. The Forum functions to unconceal
the “blind spots” that constitute this realm.
“ 
The distinction between not being there [Nicht-
Dasein] in the sense of the unconscious and being
there [Dasein] in the sense of what is conscious
also seems to be equivalent to what we have in 
mind by awakening, specifically by the awakening
of whatever is sleeping.
(FCM 61)
M
Therefore Heidegger begins with a proposal that attunements are
sleeping, and we want them awake so that they can be dealt with, 
and their influence on our world can be perceived. “Awakening 
means to make something wakeful. . . .  To awaken an attunement 
means, aft er all, to let it become awake and as such precisely to let 
it be” (FCM 60).


=== END OF PAGE 202 ===

=== PAGE 203 ===

Forum Day Three: Session One
189
JANE
Seven or eight years old.
ERHARD
You’ve got an eight-year-old running a seventeen-year-old’s life. You know that?
JANE
Yeah.
ERHARD
Is it true that nobody likes you?
JANE
No.
ERHARD
You are “nobody likes you,” even though you know that’s irrational. But it wasn’t irrational for a 
eight-year-old, was it? 
JANE
No. 
ERHARD
If I told you a story like yours to a seventeen-year-old, you’d understand that makes sense for an 
eight-year-old to think that, right?
JANE
Yeah.
ERHARD
But would you understand that in a seventeen-year-old woman?
JANE
No.
ERHARD
No, it’s not the thinking of a seventeen-year-old woman, is it?
JANE
Right.
ERHARD
You want to know about yourself that you put your identity together, you put your persona 
together. You built yourself. Your life will be a compensation for not being liked. And the way 
But Heidegger quickly pulls us up short here: on second
thought (and it is in the pattern of Heidegger’s thinking that there 
are many second thoughts for any proposal), are we really, in 
awakening an attunement, letting it be? On the contrary, Heideg-
ger suggests that attunements function best as themselves when 
they are not recognized as themselves. If, he asks,
t
“
we make an attunement conscious, come to know
of it and explicitly make the attunement itself into 
an object of knowledge, we achieve the contrary
of an awakening. The attunement is thereby pre-
cisely destroyed, or at least not intensified, but 
weakened and altered. (FCM 61)
M
Therefore, considering attunements as being asleep, and therefore 
to be awakened—since it may destroy the very phenomenon to
which we wish to attend—may not be the best path for inquiry; so
Heidegger proposes another direction for our thinking:
“ 
How oft en it happens, in a conversation among 
a group of people, that we are ‘not there,’ how
oft en we find that we were absent, albeit without
having fallen asleep. This not-being-there, this be-
ing-away [Weg-sein], has nothing at all to do with
consciousness in the usual sense. On the contrary, 
this not-being-there can be highly conscious. In 
such being absent we are precisely concerned 
with ourselves, or with something else. Yet this 
not-being-there is nonetheless a being-away. 
(FCM 63)
M
A human being can only be away because its being has the charac-
y
ter of being-there. As being-there, “a human being—insofar as he 
or she exists—is, in his or her being there, also always already and 
necessarily away in some manner” (FCM 63):


=== END OF PAGE 203 ===

=== PAGE 204 ===

190
SPEAKING BEING
to get to the possibility beyond that is to really see what happened when you were a seven- or 
eight-year-old little girl, and you got held back. Look out there. 
(indicating the group) 
What do you see? 
JANE
A lot of people staring at me.
ERHARD
You can’t see that. You can’t see “people.” You can see that person and that person and that 
person. You can’t see people. “People” is a story. Look out there and see if you can see persons.
JANE
Yeah I see persons.
ERHARD
What are those persons doing?
JANE (looking)
Some are nodding. Mouths open.
ERHARD
Is there anybody out there not liking you?
JANE
No.
ERHARD
Just persons, right? Some of them may not like you. Because there are people “not liking 
people” waiting to happen. And there are seven- and eight- year-olds like that, aren’t they? The 
other thing: I want to know if you’re going to hide the rest of your life. You know you’re hiding? 
JANE
Yes.
ERHARD
You know you’re not expressing yourself?
JANE
Yes.
ERHARD
That’s your racket, isn’t it?
“
. Being
away does not mean: not being at all. It is rather 
a way of Da-sein’s being-there. The stone, in its 
being away, is precisely not there. . . .  Only as long
as we are-there [da-sind] can we be away at all,
and vice-versa. Hence being away, or this ‘there 
and not there,’ is something peculiar, and attune-
ment is connected in some as yet obscure way 
with this peculiar manner of being. (FCM 64, 65)
M
An attunement, then, is not being asleep; nor is it being unconscious. 
It is more akin to being away while there. But it is never not there, 
which is the traditional perspective of moods and attunements, 
as “feelings”—emotional events that come and go as a result of 
circumstances (FCM 64).
M
We have so far discovered some things that an attunement is 
not. “Therefore,” says Heidegger, “we must now ask: How are we 
to grasp attunement positively as belonging to the essence of man, 
and how are we to relate toward man himself if we wish to awaken
an attunement?” (FCM 65).
He beckons us to follow him by suggesting this example:
“
A human being we are with is overcome by grief. Is 
it simply that this person has some state of lived 
experience that we do not have, while everything 
else remains as before? If not, what is happening 
here? The person overcome by grief closes himself 
off , becomes inaccessible, yet without showing any 
animosity toward us; it is simply that he becomes 
inaccessible. . . . Everything remains as before, and 
yet everything is diff erent, not only in this or that 
respect, but—irrespective of what we do and
t
what
we engage in—the way in which we are together is
y
diff erent. (FCM 66)
M
Heidegger is asking us to look closely at the situation. It is not that 
I myself feel grief; but that the attunement of our being with one
another has shift ed.
Or consider someone who is always in a good humor and
“brings a lively atmosphere with them” (FCM 68); or “someone who
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 204 ===

=== PAGE 205 ===

Forum Day Three: Session One
191
JANE
Yes.
Erhard stood very close to Jane at this point, his tone intimate. 
ERHARD
Because it’s something you do and something you are that you wish wasn’t so. 
JANE
Yes.
ERHARD
What’s the payoff  for hiding? Does hiding make you right that people don’t like you? It makes 
you right about the fact that you’re not something to be liked. 
JANE
Yes.
ERHARD
Who does it make wrong?
JANE
Them.
ERHARD
Yeah. Because they don’t like you. And you don’t have to be responsible for relating; don’t have 
to be dominated by relationship. Who you are is, “I’m not in the game.” Right?
JANE
Right.
ERHARD
How does it have you dominate? It keeps people trying to get in, doesn’t it? People around you 
are puppets trying to get in. They’re puppets dangling on the hand of your racket. Right?
JANE
Yeah.
ERHARD
Are you physically attractive?
JANE
No. I’m ugly inside. 
through their manner of being makes everything depressing and 
puts a damper on everything” (FCM 67). These attunements are 
“not at all inside in some sort of soul of the Other,” nor are they out 
there at hand in the world in some way (FCM 66). 
Where and in what way are they, then?
“
In positive terms, attunement is a fundamental 
manner, the fundamental way in which Dasein is
as Dasein. . . .  And precisely those attunements to
which we pay no heed at all, the attunements we 
least observe, those attunements that attune us 
in such a way that we feel as though there is no 
attunement there at all, as though we were not 
attuned in any way at all—these attunements are 
the most powerful. (FCM 67–68)
M
In attunements, “we first meet ourselves—as being-there” (FCM
68). They shape our world, give us our ways of being, and provide 
the context for our philosophizing. Heidegger says that the task
of philosophy is to “awaken” them in some sense, and then . . . 
well, we correct the situation, of course. This is the usual human 
impulse: fix the problem by altering or replacing the attunement. 
Heidegger and Erhard, on the other hand, are proposing a 
diff erent response, one distinguished throughout their thinking
and most importantly referred to by Heidegger as appropriation;
appropriation lets the situation be, distinguished as itself. 
“
[A]wakening attunements is a manner and means 
of grasping Da-sein with respect to the specific
‘way’ [Weise] in which it is, of grasping Da-sein as
Da-Sein, or better: of letting Da-sein be as it is, or 
can be, as Da-sein. Such awakening may perhaps 
be a strange undertaking, diff icult and scarcely 
transparent. If we have understood our task, then 
we must now see to it that we do not suddenly 
start to deliberate about attunements again or 
t
even about awakening, but inasmuch as this
t
awakening is an acting, we must act in accordance
t
with it. (FCM 68)
M


=== END OF PAGE 205 ===

=== PAGE 206 ===

192
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
What’s the “ugly inside”?
JANE
My feelings.
ERHARD
Like worthless. Like being nobody.
JANE
Yeah.
ERHARD
Do you know you made yourself “nobody”? At some point in your life something happened and you 
became “I am worthless.” It’s not that you think it. It’s that you are it. It’s not that you are worthless 
because you think you’re worthless. It’s the other way around. You are that you are “worthless” and 
therefore you think it, and you see it, and you listen it, and you smell it, taste it and touch it. You’re 
already always worthless. You’re worthless waiting to happen. Did you hear what I said?
JANE
Yeah. 
ERHARD
Now, sometime today, or at the worst, tomorrow morning, you’re going to fi nd out about this 
worthlessness business. But all I want you to get right now is that at some point in your life, something 
happened, and you made yourself worthless. It’s not that you are naturally worthless. At some point 
today you’re going to fi nd out what you are at the bottom, and it ain’t worthless. It’s something else. 
You made “being worthless.” And you’re clear there’s a payoff  to being worthless, right? 
JANE
Yes.
ERHARD
What does it cost you to be worthless?
JANE
Love, happiness, self-expression.
ERHARD
Mostly self-expression. Look out there. Does it look diff erent?
JANE
Yes. Just people.
Therefore, early in The Forum, Erhard exhorted participants not 
to try to fix anything they think is wrong with them, or to lose any
“moods” they think may get in their way. Attunements are us; they
are the raw material of The Forum.
Letting them be is diff icult and not as transparent as it 
sounds.  ■


=== END OF PAGE 206 ===

=== PAGE 207 ===

Forum Day Three: Session One
193
ERHARD
Stick around. It’s not over yet.
The Forum leader, Wes, now came onto the platform.  Erhard remained in the room.
WES
Good morning. We’re going to do the letters now. What do you think the purpose of this 
assignment was? The results of The Forum are not something deep inside yourself. Here’s 
what’s deep inside yourself: gunk, blood, undigested food. There’s no place deep inside yourself 
where life’s really happening. It’s important to get this because you’ve got to know where The 
Forum takes place to have The Forum be eff ective for you. You need to know where The Forum 
occurs so you can have it occur powerfully. Okay, here’s the hard part: where does The 
Forum occur? 
(pointing to his mouth)
The Forum occurs right here. The Forum occurs in languaging. That’s where The Forum 
occurs. It doesn’t occur where you thought it occurred. The Forum occurs in a conversation, 
which becomes you, or it doesn’t. How do people keep getting results one to two years after The 
Forum? Generating the conversation is how you make The Forum eff ective ongoingly. What 
you want to master is what occurs in being able to say and listen what The Forum is. Ultimately, 
The Forum occurs in your ability to say it—to say the possibility which it is. To those who didn’t 
do the assignment, who didn’t write the letter: You blew it. Listen to what people share: You 
could’ve gotten that.
A Japanese woman, Ayako, rose to share her letter addressed to one of her parents: she had come to 
The Forum to make a career decision, but found herself discovering that her racket is “being nice,” 
and that this was what was in the way. She stopped reading to explain to Wes the circumstances 
behind her letter.
WES
You want your letter to be so clear it doesn’t need to be explained. You should’ve put that in 
your letter.
AYAKO
I’m confused. I’m in the gap between living in the US and having a Japanese background. 
WES
You don’t sound confused to me. You may be disempowering yourself to call it confusion. Not 
knowing like a possibility may be a very powerful place to be in life. One of the most powerful 
places to be in life is to let be “not knowing.”
 
(to the group)
I invite you to stop being confused.


=== END OF PAGE 207 ===

=== PAGE 208 ===

194
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD (rejoining the conversation) 
“I’m confused” is a racket; always only a racket. It’s a way of being from which you can survive 
when you’re threatened. “I know that I don’t know” is an opening for enlightenment. Nothing 
shows up in confusion. Confusion is a resistance to knowing, and it’s built on a resistance to not 
knowing. Your resistance to not knowing produces this racket called being confused. Lots of the 
time when I’m reading I have to read something over again because I don’t get it. But I’m not 
confused. If I’m confused I put the book down and walk away. Not knowing is a very high state 
of knowing. It’s the step next to knowing. But confusion is way down at the bottom. The state 
before natural knowing is knowing that you don’t know. Confusion is a defense mechanism, not 
an attempt to learn. It’s a defense mechanism against fear.
AYAKO
My sleepless nights disappeared the moment I signed up for The Forum. 
WES
How many of you had something signifi cant happen out of enrolling? 
(most people in the room raising their hands) 
Why that happens: it was a commitment. Filling out the card, paying the money, created a 
commitment. It’s a stand for something, which itself generates the results.
PARTICIPANT
What I’m in the presence of is the cost of trying to change my racket instead of having it.
WES
You always have a reason for everything. That’s what it is to be human. What displaces the 
possibility of contributing or making a diff erence is identity.
PARTICIPANT
I was surprised that the person I chose to write the letter to was my mother—surprised that she 
was the person who would understand—with all the stuff  I have going on. 
WES
You notice her mother didn’t change. This shift in her relationship with her mother came 
from a realization she had. When your racket is running your life, your life isn’t happening. 
Something dead is happening, not living. When your racket is running your life, something is 
thwarting life.
At this point Wes announced a break, and gave participants an assignment.
WES (continuing)
Two questions for the break: What is your fundamental point of view about life? What is the 
fundamental point of view about life?
They adjourned for a break at 12:25.
“ 
Confusion is a resistance to knowing, and 
it’s built on a resistance to not knowing. 
Your resistance to not knowing produces 
this racket called being confused.


=== END OF PAGE 208 ===

=== PAGE 209 ===



=== END OF PAGE 209 ===

=== PAGE 210 ===

196
SPEAKING BEING
SESSION ONE INTERVAL
the pre-Socratics because they survive only in fragments whose interpretation can 
easily be skewed in a Heideggerian direction” (Polt 133). 
But Gerald L. Bruns, in his study of Heidegger’s later writing, has suggested 
that in his conversation with the ancient Greeks, Heidegger is musing on “a handful 
of overtranslated words (physis, logos, moira, eris, aletheia, hen)” in order to 
‘undertranslate’ these words, as if to preserve them in their darkness” (Heidegger’s 
Estrangements 181). This means taking words in “a sense which is diff erent from 
what is customary or established or used with reason; it is to take them in a sense 
which is wandering or ambiguous in the manner of the word rather than fixed in the 
manner of the term” (Heidegger’s Estrangements 181). Here we have wandered into 
a traditional definition of rhetorical figures, both tropes and schemes, which serve 
to turn us away from the common usage and meaning of sentences (schemes) and 
words (tropes). Etymology is one such turning away from the current and common 
to retrieve and make present what has been lost and dispersed; etymology is in 
essence a form of punning that brings about a shift , an awakening to a sense distinct 
from the obvious and everyday. Bruns writes that
“
Aft er all, an etymology is, rhetorically, a figure of speech that 
consists of taking a familiar expression strangely, where the 
strangeness takes the form of some repressed or forgotten 
“original sense.” But of course there never was such a sense 
in the sense of a time when etymology determined use. There 
never was anything but idiom, that is, no time of pristine, 
undisseminated (fixed) meaning. . . . To imagine a people
somewhere actually speaking etymologically is comic theatre 
worthy of Jonathon Swift  or James Joyce—or Woody Allen. 
(Gerald Bruns, Heidegger’s Estrangements 134–135)
While there is no “original” meaning of a word, the tendency to forget the constitutive 
possibilities of language leaves us to assume there was a time of pristine and fixed 
meaning from which we have devolved, and back to which the practice of etymology 
might bring us. Thus, remembering our forgetfulness through etymological punning—if 
we follow the movement of Heidegger’s figure—evokes the “strangeness” of what 
appears to be an “original sense.”
John D. Caputo has proposed a similar justification for these etymologies: 
Heidegger’s goal, says Caputo, is “to eff ect a ‘destruction,’ a shaking loose, of 
Western philosophy in order to gain access to what is really being said in and by it. 
The Forgetting of Being, Part Three of Eight: Heidegger's 
Etymologies
Heidegger’s project may be seen as a reaction against the development of the 
metaphysical tradition in Western thinking, and as a corresponding attempt to 
think a way back to the greatness which was promised at the beginning of Western 
philosophy. For Heidegger, a significant step in this thinking-back involves tracing 
the etymologies of terms whose meanings emerged with the pre-Socratic Greek 
thinkers, whose writings mostly exist as fragments. These meanings, and the path 
of their development over the centuries, have critically influenced the way human 
beings in Western cultures (and, increasingly, global cultures) experience their 
world.
The meanings of these terms, Heidegger claims, took an unfortunate turn 
early in their development, so that today, in our loss of an experience of Being, we 
suff er the consequences of this devolution. Heidegger is forceful on this point: our 
language, he says, is “worn out.” We must therefore “seek to win back intact the 
naming force of language and words; for words and language are not just shells 
into which things are packed for spoken and written intercourse. In the word, in 
language, things first come to be and are” (IM 15).
In tracing this historical process, Heidegger has constructed what Richard 
Polt describes as “a saga in which an original Greek experience of unconcealment 
degenerated into a focus on correctness, with dire consequences for us all” 
(Heidegger: An Introduction 133). Heidegger’s historical perspective on language, 
and thus Being, is developed throughout his writing, and is therefore complex and 
varying, especially aft er the “turn” in his later work. But, says Polt, what remains 
constant is that the story of Being is a story of decline, “a fall from a promising Greek 
beginning” (132).
In his attempt to restore the power of Being, therefore, Heidegger proposes 
to explore the earliest extant written clues to our origins. In his development of 
these etymologies, Heidegger’s readings of the Greek texts are controversial. John 
Stewart, among others, has raised the question of whether these readings are in fact 
supported by the texts themselves (“Speech and Human Being” 64); and Richard 
Rorty has gone so far as to call Heidegger’s etymologies “largely fake” (Contingency, 
Irony, and Solidarity 131). Polt characterizes them as “idiosyncratic,” and wonders 
whether, in his selection of Greek texts to deconstruct, Heidegger is “so attracted to 


=== END OF PAGE 210 ===

=== PAGE 211 ===

Forum Day Three: Session One Interval 
197
For Heidegger . . . the deepest meaning of a text is ‘concealed’ within it, for what a 
text has to say is ‘unspoken’ in it.” This is why Heidegger’s interpretations appear 
“outrageous” and “scandalous,” says Caputo: Heidegger hears a “primal address,” 
“the power of the first word” (The Mystical Element in Heidegger’s Thought 170).
It is also useful, given the emphasis that Heidegger’s later thinking placed on 
the generative nature of the language of poetry, to consider this passage from his 
analysis of the Anaximander fragment, considered “the oldest fragment of Western 
thinking”: “Thinking of Being is the original way of poetizing. . . . Because it poetizes 
as it thinks, the translation which wishes to let the oldest fragment of thinking itself 
speak necessarily appears violent” (EGT 19).
Thus Heidegger may be seen in his exploration of Greek thinking to be weaving 
a linguistic and poetic tapestry, threaded throughout with ambiguity, but a tapestry 
to which his entire thought is devoted: the language of Being, which is already 
always in language. If language is “the house of Being,” the question of Being is 
necessarily implicit in every question and yet at the same time always beyond 
language: “Being remains unthought” (“LH” in BW 242). 
His etymological discursions should therefore be considered in the same way 
as his phenomenological proposals regarding Dasein’s existential components: we 
should try them on, to consider whether, in the end, they allow us to see something 
we had not heretofore seen. As Polt points out, Heidegger’s etymologies, while 
idiosyncratic, nevertheless succeed in shedding a new light on the tradition: 
“Translating logos as ‘reason’ may not be wrong, but it certainly does less to make us 
think than does Heidegger’s rendition of it as ‘collecting collectedness’” (Heidegger: 
An Introduction 135). 


=== END OF PAGE 211 ===

=== PAGE 212 ===

198
SPEAKING BEING
The Forum resumed at 12:55 pm. Wes was on the platform, and called for participants to share about 
having called their parents or others in their lives to “get complete.”
PRESTON
I think I’ve had what’s called a breakthrough. I will try to contextualize it using the language I 
am learning here.
WES
Why don’t you just share it?
PRESTON
I always feel better after a disclaimer. I was in New Jersey two weeks ago and Werner was there. 
On the blackboard was written: “I am prepared to be the man I haven’t been, and I won’t be the 
man I was.” And what came to me as I was settling up with my parents is that I chose to honor 
the integrity of the process.
WES
What’s happening in The Forum could be called coaching. That’s the conversation The Forum 
leaders are committed to. Very few people in life are coachable. Children are uncoachable. 
Because every time you say anything to them they say, “I know.” And very few of us ever grow 
out of that. Making oneself coachable is an act of generosity.
PRESTON
It was an act of trust. I got that as soon as the fl oor is raised by one of us, it aff ects all of us. 
There’s a redundancy of overlap that makes for perfect survival. I felt the mechanism of the 
fl oor. My racket is manipulation: When it comes to relationships with women, fi rst I fascinate, 
then I entice sexually, and then I become emotionally unavailable. But I’m able to be with 
that now. The boss racket I run is manipulation. The way I am in the world is manipulation. 
And the way that it is, is that you can have anything in the world as long as it isn’t touched by 
manipulation. The manipulation that I’ve crafted into a high art turns out to be the only thing 
that can sabotage what really exists, which is, you can have it, just don’t tell a story, have it, go 
about the steps to have it. I completed with my parents, who are both gone. I see that I’ve got 
doubts to meet every situation, but I’ve also begun listening. I want to acknowledge you all for 
the privilege. 
WES
So you want to hear in people’s speaking: The Forum. That’s the whole Forum. So now he’s 
going into the bonus land. He got the whole Forum. You don’t even have to remember what he 
said. What you want to see is The Forum working in people’s speaking, and allow yourself to be 
used by it. Joyce?
JOYCE
Yesterday, I was clear that I was complete with my father, who had passed away. Then I 
looked at my mother, and saw that she is perfect the way she is, and that I was complete with 
FORUM DAY THREE: 
SESSION TWO


=== END OF PAGE 212 ===

=== PAGE 213 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Two 
199
her. There was nothing else to do. But then I realized that there was something incomplete, 
which was how I was in the relationship, but not how I presented myself in the relationship. 
I saw what a shit I was when I was a teenager, and how much damage I had done by leaving. 
I left home after college and I emigrated to this country alone. I made it on my own. I never 
completed that I ran away.
WES
She’s talking about running away as a solution to a problem. Probably useful for you to look 
at the things you have left, the people you have left in order to solve a problem. To get the 
communication you left from their perspective. 
JOYCE
Yesterday I saw the damage I had done. I see that I participate, but I don’t share. I’m very good 
at what I do, but I don’t put myself in there. And I knew that I had to give that up here in The 
Forum. I called my mother. I told her. She said “that’s great!” I told her about two incidents that 
were very troubling. I told her that I got how rotten I was in the process of leaving. She said, 
“yes you were.” 
WES
And right there was the moment of getting off  it.
JOYCE
She said, “thank you for telling me that.” She described how I was and it was frightening. I can 
see what it must have been like for her. I saw what I am like; I can see what a pain in the ass I 
am for all the people I work with. I have heard it but haven’t really seen it. It was very settling.
WES
There’s a possibility for being in communication that settles issues.
JOYCE
She told me “hearing this gives me a wave of warmth.” I got that I set her free and that I was 
too. 
WES
Great. Thank you.
(applause)
I invite you to listen to big people, people willing to set aside their accomplishments, to not use 
them as an excuse to not participate, as a way for you to put yourself into The Forum.
Jake stood—the participant from Day One who was “hustle waiting to happen” and who also was 
“nutty” about inauthenticity.


=== END OF PAGE 213 ===

=== PAGE 214 ===

200
SPEAKING BEING
JAKE
I was a shit to my mom when I was nine years old. Our relationship has been the same, and so I 
apologized to her. I told her I was here and she thought that was neat. She was glad to hear that. 
I said “let’s not be this anymore.” I told her that I accept her. She drives me nuts, but I want a 
relationship with her.
WES
She doesn’t drive you nuts. You can have an interpretation that your mother drives you nuts. 
I know that one very well. When I was thirty-fi ve I visited my mother in Miami and she told 
me what time she thought I should be home. Drove me nuts. If it was raining out, she would 
suggest clothes to wear. Drove me nuts: until I got off  it and got how much of a creep I was. I 
got off  it and I allowed my mother to mother me. Because that’s what mothers do. That’s their 
job. What did you expect your mother to do? Business deals with you? 
JAKE
I’ve got a complex network of anxiety of reactionary being. When I’m that way it destroys what 
we can’t have between each other. We don’t have a connection. I told her I loved her and she 
said something to me. I realized she knew more of what’s going on than I thought. She said that 
she would give me the space to be me. She knows how crazy she is. And she said she was going 
to stop doing that with me.
WES (to another participant taking a microphone)
This is about completing with your parents?
ESME
My twin sister. I saw how I make her wrong. I told her that I loved her, that I had taken things 
out on her instead of “you,” which I mean everyone.
WES
There’s a lot more love going on around you than most people are willing to experience. 
ESME
I completed with my sister about our competition for our dead father’s love. But I still was 
having an issue with “you” when I overheard a bunch of people asking a woman from Uganda 
really stupid questions. I realized she wasn’t upset about stupid questions, and that I don’t have 
to be. I can be an expert about being a twin. 
WES 
We’ve got to move on. But you have a standing invitation to keep getting complete with people 
in your life. One of the commitments of The Forum is to unconceal the being of human 
beings—what’s giving you who you are. What was there before you were born? If you’re a man 
or a woman, you were born into what it is to be one. If you’re trying to carve out a new version, 
you’re doing it against that already always background. The being of human being was decided 
at a party you weren’t invited to and you had to fi t into that once you showed up. One of the 
Danger: Attunements and Moods
In Heidegger’s account of human existence, Dasein—human 
being—is always being some way. Being-in-the-world, that is, is 
always a particular way of being. Heidegger uses two terms for 
this condition—Befindlichkeit, which is translated as state-of-mind
(Dreyfus translates this as aff ectedness), and Bestimmung, translated 
as attunement. Both terms will be found in passages quoted in this 
book, but we will focus on the latter term, “attunement,” since it 
avoids psychological implications embedded in “state-of-mind,” 
and more powerfully suggests the totality of the situation: I am 
always attuned to the world in some way, and my attunement at 
any moment determines what things in the world mean to me—how 
much and in what way they “matter.”
But my options for ways of being attuned to the world have 
been made available to me in my thrownness—that is, they are 
limited to a certain range of opportunities for understanding, a 
context of meaning into which I have been thrown, willy-nilly, 
and over which I have no control (see the “Thrownness” sidebar 
in Session Three of Day Two). The nature and source of these 
limits are invisible to me; like water to a fish, this background is 
so enveloping, so constitutive of everything, that I cannot see it. I 
simply experience its strictures in my life, and, occasionally, have 
the vague sense that there might be something more. In another of 
Erhard’s expressions, my thrownness lies in the realm of what we 
don’t know that we don’t know, and is therefore beyond our grasp. 
But it colors everything.
Further, there is something primordially threatening about the 
nature of this context, a danger that leads us to avoid confronting 
it (though we don’t know that this is what we are doing), 
despite our sense that more might be possible in life. Dasein, 
at some level, recognizes that it does not want to face up to the 
inescapability of its limits—what Heidegger calls “the facticity of 
its being delivered over” (BT 174). To avoid this confrontation, we 
lose ourselves in the distractions of the they-self—averageness, 
curiosity, ambiguity, and the chatter of the public realm. In certain 
states of mind, a situation may occur for us with a heightened 
intensity, but its nature remains obscured: an attunement is the 
kind of Being in which 


=== END OF PAGE 214 ===

=== PAGE 215 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Two 201
commitments of The Forum is to unconceal the entire design of human being. Something very 
powerful occurs, transformation occurs when you can actually be present to the design: human 
being. What we want to confront, near the source of the design “human being,” is what is your 
fundamental point of view and relationship to life? Life is really composed of other people. 
What we’re really asking is, what’s the fundamental relationship to other people?
At this point, Wes called two participants to come to the chalkboards.
WES
We’re going to start with the question, what is the fundamental point of view of human beings 
for life? Your fundamental point of view toward life occurs in a very simple statement. I’m not 
interested in your complicated philosophies. Call out, “Life is —”  
The group began calling out responses, and as they did so, the two participants at the boards wrote 
the answers: hard, change, imperfect, me, a problem, survival, dangerous, fun, experiences, etc.
WES
When you’re being in life, what’s really there? 
Various participants called out: “Imperfect. Hard. Quest for knowledge. Change. Problem. Me. 
Evolvement. Survival. Dangerous. Not fair. Getting by. Threatening. Fun. Continual state of 
learning...”
WES
A lot of this is bullshit—When you’re being in life. “Continual state of learning” is conceptual. 
That’s not you walking down the street having to deal with the street. See, there’s you, and 
there’s it... everything else. Isn’t that a fundamental division? There’s you and then there’s “it.” I 
want to know your relationship to “it.” When you’re present to you and “it,” what’s there, like a 
presence?
People continued to call out answers which were written on the board: I’ll show it, impressing 
it, struggle, approval, hide from it, it’s fucked and I’ll never fi x it, separation, dealing with stupid 
people, life can hurt you, etc. 
WES (continuing)
Your relationship to “it” is struggle, and “it” is going to win. It will. You don’t live like that. 
“It” is bigger. You’re going to die. Your life is about a relationship to “it,” to prevent dying, and 
“it” is going to win. You don’t live like that. You know it. People forget how they originated. 
You’re dealing with “it,” but in a way that you’re going to lose. The fundamental point of 
view upon emerging into noise and cold and pain at birth: life is about avoiding the threat. 
Life is dangerous. It’s threatening. Life is a threat. How do you respond? Survive. Life is about 
surviving the threat that life is. That’s the already always way it is. That’s what you inherited. 
That’s what you joined. You didn’t choose it. And you are it. Some of you are dealing with 
danger by getting “its” approval. Some of you are dealing with danger by fl attering “it.” Some 
Dasein constantly surrenders itself to the
‘world’ and lets the ‘world’ “matter” to it in
such a way that somehow Dasein evades its 
very self. (
f
BT 178, emphasis added)
“
Attunements disclose thrownness in such a way as to conceal it; 
thrownness is disclosed in the manner of an evasive turning-away 
(BT 175). It’s there but we don’t want to look. 
Closely related to an attunement is a mood, which may be 
seen as the attunement’s affective dimension—the ontic 
manifestation in human experience of an ontological condition 
that remains in the background. We are never free of moods, 
whether intense or pallid. But nothing like a mood could occur 
for us, says Heidegger, 
if Being-in-the-world, with its state-of-mind 
[Befindlichkeit], had not already submitted 
itself to having entities within-the-world “mat-
ter” to it in a way which its moods have outlined 
in advance. (BT 177, emphasis added)
“
A mood arises from an attunement. So while we generally ascribe 
the cause of a mood to the circumstances, Heidegger suggests that 
we always already have a relationship with the world that evokes 
our particular moods. Our unwillingness to confront this situation 
leaves us stuck as the victim of the circumstances. It leaves us 
going through the motions of a life that is not our own, and thus 
we are immersed in an inauthentic existence.
But in certain attunements, Heidegger saw the possibility for 
an authentic human experience of Being. Some moods, he saw, 
have more significant potential for prompting such a disclosive 
experience. The prerequisite is that the mood evoke a shift  of focus: 
we must become present to the world, rather than to those specific 
things in the world with which we are concerned.
Generally, in our everyday preoccupations, we seem to “cling 
to this or that particular being.” But at some level, says Heidegger, 
we are always dealing with beings as a whole. This does not mean 
assuming a detached “objective” stance toward the populace; it is 
rather an element of our attunements: 


=== END OF PAGE 215 ===

=== PAGE 216 ===

202
SPEAKING BEING
of you are dealing with danger by being smart. Some of you are dealing with danger by being 
successful. Your racket is your way of dealing with the danger that life is. I want you to consider 
the possibility that along with this fundamental point of view there is an experience of living, 
which is almost never acknowledged by people. It’s totally suppressed, but it runs your life. It 
runs your relationships with other people. Ask yourself, why do I have to have a racket? What’s 
it covering over? What’s driving it?
LOTTIE
I’m so tough I don’t need anybody. I’m supposed to know and if I don’t know then I’m not 
tough.
WES
What does that cover over?
LOTTIE
That I’m a woman. 
WES
What’s the experience underneath that?
LOTTIE
That I’m a sexual being; that I’m not supposed to want it.
WES
Are you scared of sex?
LOTTIE (reluctantly)
Yes.
WES
You see, she couldn’t even say it. Couldn’t acknowledge it. And this is a woman who was really 
trying to say it, but it was horrifying to even acknowledge that she’s scared of it—because she’s 
tough. Tough people are never afraid.
LOTTIE
I just about died at the thought that it could be a part of my life.
WES
Got it. Great. Thanks.
(applause)
Other participants shared their answers and as they did so Wes indicated the fear that underlay 
each one: “I’m afraid I’ll get taken advantage of”; “I’m terrifi ed of being alone”; “I’m afraid of being 
Why do such moods give a possibility of authentic self-disclosure? 
Remember, we are questioning aft er the background, the 
determinative context for the everyday. Heidegger calls it the nothing, 
but it generally occurs for us as something, and we resist it. If we are 
moved to seek it, however, where can we look? Heidegger’s response:
In the end an essential distinction prevails
between comprehending the whole of beings in
themselves and finding oneself in the midst of 
beings as a whole. The former is impossible in
principle. The latter happens all the time in our 
existence. (“WM” in BW 99, emphasis added)
“
If the nothing itself is to be questioned as we
have been questioning it, then it must be given
beforehand. We must be able to encounter it.
Where shall we seek the nothing? . . . The total-
ity of beings must be given in advance so as to 
be able to fall prey straightway to negation—in 
which the nothing itself would then be mani-
fest. (“WM” in BW 98, emphasis added)
“
But for the background to be disclosed, it must become the 
foreground: our presence to the whole must occur as salient. 
This shift may happen, for example, in the mood of boredom:
No matter how fragmented our everyday exis-
tence may appear to be, [. . .] it always deals with
beings in a unity of the “whole,” if only in a shad-
owy way. Even and precisely when we are not
actually busy with things or ourselves, this “as
a whole” overcomes us—for example in genuine
boredom. . . . Profound boredom, drift ing here 
and there in the abysses of our existence, like a
muff ling fog, removes all things and human be-
ings and oneself along with them into a remark-
able indiff erence. This boredom reveals beings as
a whole. (“WM” in BW99)
“
It is the function of The Forum to make present the totality of beings 
so that it can be cleared through negation.
WES (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 216 ===

=== PAGE 217 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Two 203
hurt.” This last statement came from a participant who had lived in bed for eight years with back 
pain. 
WES
What’s here in The Forum now is a safe place to communicate what’s really so for you in your 
life. We’ve designed a space in here where you can confront your own fear of being alive, your 
own fear of other people and of living. I invite you to experience it, not to avoid it; not to sleep 
through it. Wake up! I don’t know who you got out there that you lie to, but the ultimate jerk 
is someone who lies to themselves. You may have people conned, but the one person you don’t 
want to con is yourself. It turns you into the ultimate jerk. This is a chance to get straight with 
yourself, to fi nd out what is running your life. 
PARTICIPANT
I’m powerfully addicted to approval. If I don’t get it I leave. 
WES
And what’s underneath that is fear. 
(to the group) 
Let it up in your body. At fi rst you’ll have to reach for it. You’re so dead to it you have to reach 
for it. The fear is so frightening that you’ll fi nd an unwillingness to fully get present for it. Let it 
up for yourself. 
BETHANY
My knees are shaking.
WES
Allow it to be.
BETHANY
I can’t let my sons love me. I ask: “what would happen if I let them love me?” 
WES
Here’s what it’s all about. You need to experience your deep and profound fear of being loved by 
them. What would happen if you let that in, and then left, or they died? 
BETHANY
I don’t know what I would do, or what it would feel like.
WES
Just let yourself experience what stops you from letting them love you. Very simple. Don’t make 
any decisions. Just acknowledge and experience the fear. We’re in a group of exercises. That’s 
what there is to do in this exercise. Just experience that.
From Fearful to Fearsome
In addition to boredom, two other human moods are presented 
by Heidegger as having special potential for making possible an 
authentic disclosure of our thrownness.
The first is fear. The evocation of the underlying source of fear 
has been a significant element of Erhard’s work since its inception, 
in both the est Training and The Forum.
The second is anxiety. Heidegger draws a fundamental 
distinction between these two states-of-mind. Fear may of course 
take various forms, such as alarm, terror, or dread. But in every 
case the source of the fear remains the same: “All modifications 
of fear, as possibilities of having a state-of-mind, point to the fact 
that Dasein as Being-in-the-world is ‘fearful’” (BT 182, emphasis 
added). This is the element of the human condition that is being 
distinguished at this point in The Forum. In fear, “that in the face 
of which we fear is a detrimental entity within-the-world” (BT 
230). That is, we are always afraid of something; something has a 
significance, and that significance arouses our fear. But fear is not 
generated by the something. 
The exercise being initiated by the Forum leader here—
referred to as the Danger Process—is designed to distinguish the 
nature and source of the participants’ fear, and to transform their 
relationship to life from “life is dangerous” (I am at the eff ect of 
life) to “I am dangerous” (I am powerful in life). 
Erhard has told the participants that The Forum is designed to 
“take them down one step at a time,” and the evocation of fear at 
this point is an important step. The structure of the Danger Process 
first evokes the fearful mood, so that, in Heidegger’s words, 
“fear can then look at the fearsome explicitly, and ‘make it clear’ 
to itself” (BT 180). But then, in a dramatic example of reflexive 
rhetoric, the fearsome is flipped. The fearful become the fearsome. 
In this way, participants take an important hurdle, a stretch toward 
the ultimate leap of their transformation. 
Anxiety
What is concealed in the mood of fear is anxiety. Anxiety, says 
Heidegger, is “what first makes fear possible” (BT 230). Fear is, as it 
were, anxiety with a false cause. Fear arises when Dasein flees the 


=== END OF PAGE 217 ===

=== PAGE 218 ===

204
SPEAKING BEING
Wes continued taking shares about fear, and unconcealing the fear underneath participants’ 
fundamental points of view. 
WES
Human beings put “bad” around fear. You can’t experience what we called “bad.” But it’s always 
there. You’re born into fear. If you don’t believe me, read the newspapers. Newspapers trade on 
fear.
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 6)
I’ve never been present to as much fear as I’m present to right now. I’m afraid if I share myself 
you’ll fi nd out how bankrupt I am, that I’m stupid, uncreative, inadequate, ineff ectual, nasty, 
uncaring, and you’ll throw me out of the game. I hate to say this because it’s one of my rackets 
to handle this—to be humorous—I’m too short. I can see where my whole life is generated out 
of this. I am just terrifi ed. I’ve done everything to prove that I’m intelligent, creative, eff ective, 
productive. I lead The Forum which is a perfect way to avoid being present to the terror, when 
you’re up there with a microphone and drinking out of a cup, it’s very insulating. I’m terrifi ed of 
discovering how worthless I am. I went to an Ivy League university, graduated top of my class, a 
successful veterinarian, an eff ective Forum leader, all in an attempt to stop you from seeing that 
I’m none of the things I’m supposed to be. 
WES
Thanks.
PARTICIPANT
I’m terrifi ed all the time. Scared to death of horror movies.
WES
The fear is always already there. Horror movies just bring it up. Those of you who can’t be 
present to the fear raise your hands. 
PARTICIPANT
I’m afraid of being alive.
WES
All it takes is being able to acknowledge it. Try on the possibility that you actually are scared 
to death, and don’t know it, and don’t know that you don’t know it; that your whole life is a 
strategy for avoiding the domination of life. You’re scared of living. It’s too confronting. It’s 
all too dangerous. And your whole crummy act is put together as a strategy for making it in a 
world of danger. Try it on. Don’t reject it. Just acknowledge it for yourself.
Here Wes called for paired sharing, where participants sitting next to each other replicated for 
themselves what others have said before the entire group. Following this, Wes announced an eyes-
closed exercise. 
disclosure of its thrownness, and turns in its flight toward entities 
in the world, which it then identifies as the source of the fear. 
In anxiety, however, the entities in their significance disappear, 
and the background to all fears is revealed: 
What is the diff erence phenomenally between
that in the face of which anxiety is anxious and
that in the face of which fear is afraid? That in
the face of which one has anxiety is not an entity 
within-the-world. . . . That in the face of which 
one is anxious is completely indefinite. . . . 
[In anxiety], the world has the character of 
completely lacking significance. (BT 230–231,
emphasis added)
“
In moments of anxiety, the meanings with which we customarily 
comfort ourselves, even the meanings that make us fearful, 
lose their certainty, so that what is disclosed is the context of 
meaninglessness from which all of the meanings have been 
distinguished. 
That in the face of which one has anxiety is
characterized by the fact that what threatens is
nowhere. Anxiety ‘does not know’ what that in 
the face of which it is anxious is. . . . it is so close
that it is oppressive and stifles one’s breath, 
and yet it is nowhere. . . . [In anxiety] entities
within-the-world are of so little importance in 
themselves that on the basis of this insignifi-
cance of what is within-the-world, the world 
in its worldhood is all that still obtrudes itself.
What oppresses us is not this or that, nor is it the
summation of everything present-at-hand. . . .
Being-in-the-world itself is that in the face of 
which anxiety is anxious. (BT 231–232)
“


=== END OF PAGE 218 ===

=== PAGE 219 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Two 205
WES
That was the tip of the iceberg. Now we’re going to give you the opportunity to experience the 
whole thing. It’s an exercise designed for you to really confront your fear of living and being 
with people. You may hear people expressing it, crying. Allow yourself to be with your fear of 
other people. If you really allow yourself to experience it, the depth of it may surprise you. You 
have to be willing to take on what I’m asking you to consider and stand in it.
The next forty-fi ve minutes were devoted to the Danger Process. Participants were asked to remain 
in their chairs with their eyes closed and to follow Wes’s instructions, as he directed them to 
surround themselves, in their imaginations with an ever-widening circle of dangerous people. First, 
he told them to imagine that they were afraid of the people sitting on either side of them. After a few 
minutes, he said they should imagine—“create”—that they were afraid of the hundreds of people in 
The Forum room. With each step, participants were urged to create the experience of fear, to “let the 
experience up,” and with each step he allowed time for the fear to be generated. 
As he continued, Wes expanded the fearful environment to include the entire population of San 
Francisco, and then the 250 million people in the United States, and the world (circa 1989). As he 
exhorted participants to create the experience of fear, people began to respond vocally with screams 
and shouts. At fi rst these were isolated, but gradually the room became a cacophony of cries and 
wails. Wes, already using a microphone, had to speak even more loudly to make himself heard over 
the din, as he persisted in his instruction that people let the fear up, that they continue to create for 
themselves this fear of other people. 
This dramatic expression of fear continued at maximum pitch for some fi fteen minutes. As it began 
to subside, a few laughs could be heard permeating the screams, and Wes spoke.
WES
There’s something on the other side of it, something to get. There’s a fundamental absurdity 
about living. All those people you are afraid of? They are, in fact, afraid of you. 
At this point he reversed the process and led participants back through the concentric circles, this 
time pointing out that all of those people they’d been afraid of—the population of the world, the 
country, of California, of San Francisco, the people in The Forum, the people sitting on either side of 
them—were “just as afraid of you as you are of them. Making you the most dangerous person in the 
world.” 
WES (as the laughter diminished)
Going through this exercise is about allowing you to be with your fear, not to get rid of it. This 
may enable you to be compassionate, now that you understand what people are going through, 
including yourself. This won’t make the fear go away, but will allow you to be with it. It’ll still be 
there, but it doesn’t have to stop you. Not overcoming it, not in spite of it, but allowing it to be. 
If you didn’t get it, go out on a street away from the hotel, and when someone approaching you 
is about 3 or 4 feet away, jump out and say boo! 
But recall: Being-in-the-world, as the Being of Dasein, is not 
something separate from Dasein itself. In anxiety, therefore, Dasein—
the “there” of Being-there, the clearing in-the-world for Being—comes 
face-to-face with itself, and not conceptually, but directly. Thrownness 
is disclosed as what it is—a situation with no significance, a world 
that we inhabit because that’s where we showed up. It has us, and it 
has no meaning. And that’s all there is to it. 
Anxiety reveals the nothing. We “hover” in anx-
iety. More precisely, anxiety leaves us hanging
because it induces the slipping away of beings
as a whole. This implies that we ourselves—we
humans who are in being—in the midst of beings
slip away from ourselves... In the altogether un-
settling experience of this hovering where there
is nothing to hold onto, pure Da-sein is all that is 
still there. . . . (“WM” in BW101, emphasis added)
“
The ‘world’ can off er nothing more, and nei-
ther can the Dasein-with of Others. Anxiety 
thus takes away from Dasein the possibility of 
understanding itself, as it falls, in terms of the 
‘world’ and the way things have been publicly
interpreted. (BT 232)
“
And when Being-in-the-world is all there is, what gets revealed is that
In anxiety, the meanings of our everyday reality—the 
interpretations of the they-self—fall away. “Anxiety reveals the 
nothing” (“WM” in BW 101).


=== END OF PAGE 219 ===

=== PAGE 220 ===

206
SPEAKING BEING
(laughter)
Participants who had not yet shared in The Forum were asked to share their experience of the 
exercise. 
PARTICIPANT
I was feeling my body all scared, and I felt like I didn’t want to be left alone. I like to pretend like 
I’m okay when I’m alone. 
WES
Do you see a new possibility for yourself?
PARTICIPANT
To let people know I’m afraid.
WES
Powerful people are afraid and have the power to communicate that when it would make a 
diff erence. Thank you.
(applause)
PARTICIPANT
I’ve always pretended to not be afraid. I remembered a childhood experience. I didn’t want to 
go to school. I was afraid to do anything. I really am afraid of my children. I always have to be 
strong. I didn’t cry when my dad died. I completely suppressed it. I’m willing to be with my 
being scared.
WES
Great. Thanks.
(applause)
PARTICIPANT
I haven’t shared yet because I’m afraid. I got that it’s so ludicrous to be afraid of all these 
people who are so afraid of me. I’m in a diff erent world now. I can see the faces out there, and I 
couldn’t before. That wasn’t possible before.
WES
Thanks.
(applause)
Anxiety throws Dasein back upon that which
it is anxious about—its authentic potentiali-
ty-for-Being-in-the-world. Anxiety individualiz-
es Dasein for its ownmost Being-in-the-world, 
which as something that understands, projects 
itself essentially upon possibilities. Therefore, 
with that which it is anxious about, anxiety
discloses Dasein as Being-possible... Anxiety 
makes manifest in Dasein its Being-towards its 
ownmost potentiality-for-Being—that is, its
Being-free for the freedom of choosing itself 
and taking hold of itself. Anxiety brings Dasein 
face-to-face with its Being-free-for the authen-
ticity of its Being, and for this authenticity as a
possibility which it always is. (BT 232)
“
Anxiety as the abyss of nothing has morphed into anxiety as 
a clearing for the freedom of possibility. This is the essential 
movement of The Forum, hinted at persistently and in many 
iterations throughout the conversation. This is the reflexive 
rhetorical moment that will be achieved in its fullness by The 
Forum’s conclusion, and for which the Danger Process has greased 
the slide. In Heidegger’s terms, this is the event of appropriation.
In anxiety, we are confronted with the fundamental possibility 
of our existence, because the people, things, and events which 
usually have meaning for us are suddenly without significance. 
Literally, they mean nothing: “When anxiety has subsided, then in 
our everyday way of talking we are accustomed to say that ‘it was 
really nothing.’ And what it was, indeed, does get reached ontically 
by such a way of talking” (BT 231).
We call attention to Heidegger’s use here of the qualifier 
“ontically,” which refers to facts and concepts within the realm 
of beings. That is, it is conceptually accurate to say that what we 
But now watch closely; something important is happening:


=== END OF PAGE 220 ===

=== PAGE 221 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Two 207
PARTICIPANT (a teenage boy)
I’ve always been cracking jokes, always had to have something to say, and now what I’m looking 
at... is... it’s all an act. 
PARTICIPANT
I could only get in touch with a little fear.
WES
This is not about liberation. You should experience that suppression. Whatever you experience 
is fi ne, really. Just continue to listen to the conversation in the room. And if you continue to 
listen to the conversation in the room, it will continue to open up for you—what’s going on 
with you. We’re a long way until the end of The Forum. Be here, now, in this conversation. The 
Forum is too simple for complicated minds. The conversation going on in the room is more 
powerful than your internal dialogue. 
(applause)
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 7)
This is the fi rst time I really saw how scared to death I am of people in authority. My father 
died when I was four years old, and my mother was a very strong and powerful woman. That’s 
the bitch I can never get away from. If we did not do what she asked us to do, she would tie us 
up and beat us with a stick, or with words. I saw that I can never be myself around people in 
authority, because I am always afraid of being beaten or yelled at. And so I turn into a weasel 
around authority and I can’t make straight requests, because when I asked my mother, I knew 
it wouldn’t be accepted. And I couldn’t say no to her, ever. None of us could, there were three 
of us. And the other side of it, that being able to see, really, that she was scared to death of me, 
that she was scared to death that I would not do what she asked if she didn’t use force. Later on, 
when you spoke about compassion, and I felt such deep compassion for all people in authority 
who use force, because they’re really scared that if they don’t use force, you won’t do what they 
are asking you to do. I’m standing in this huge possibility of really being with people who use 
force and really being there and really acknowledging my terror of forty-nine years of stuff  has 
disappeared. 
WES
Thank you.
Wes announced a break. The assignment for the break: get a partner and complete your experience 
of the exercise.
The Forum adjourned for a break at 4:00 pm.
fear in anxiety is “really nothing”; in saying this, the concept of 
nothing has been reached. But what gives an experience of anxiety 
its potential for self-revelation is that in such a state of mind we 
reach nothing ontologically. And in this deeply experienced loss of 
worldly significance there occurs, simultaneously, the possibility 
of the clearing, the pure Being-openness which is Dasein. As 
anxiety, the experience is unsettling; beneath and beyond lies the 
possibility. But do not build up too much hope.
In the Danger Process, we can observe a clear instance of what 
appears to be a symbiotic relationship between Erhard’s work and the 
thinking of Martin Heidegger. This process was a central element of 
the est Training from its inception, and consistently provided one of its 
most dramatic components. But in The Forum, when that process is 
placed within the framework of Heidegger’s model of Dasein, it gains 
a new and empowering context; while at the same time, the in-the-
world power of Heidegger’s model is illuminated. 
We note, however, that despite this aff inity between the 
evocative aims of the two thinkers, on our view it would be 
inaccurate to say that The Forum evokes an experience of anxiety 
in participants. That term has denotative power in its use by 
Heidegger, suggesting the aff ective extremity of the path to 
ontological liberation. But the languaging of The Forum employs its 
own vocabulary of hints, thereby providing an alternate ontological 
path—equally extreme, but without the inevitable psychological 
implications that currently accompany the concept of anxiety. 
We assert that what distinguishes the transformation of 
Erhard’s work from the majority of personal empowerment 
programs—those that, in Erhard’s words, help people become 
“more, better, or diff erent”—is its evocation of the Nothing. An 
authentic experience of Being, said Heidegger, must begin by 
doing violence to the “tranquillized obviousness” of the everyday 
interpretation. Therefore The Forum works backward before it 
moves forward; this is the heart of its genius. ■


=== END OF PAGE 221 ===

=== PAGE 222 ===

208
SPEAKING BEING
meta ta phusika, which indicates a realm over beyond what naturally is. In the 
metaphysical understanding of things that has developed in the West, Being has 
been severed from its original relationship with beings, and has been relegated to 
the over beyond, a loft y transcendental realm to which access is mysterious and, for 
contemporary thinking, no longer even desirable. For the most part, human beings 
are unaware that anything is missing. For us, says Heidegger, the “word ‘Being’ is 
then finally just an empty word. It means nothing actual, tangible, real. Its meaning 
is an unreal vapor” (IM 39–40). 
From the inception of his work, Werner Erhard has engaged the public by 
calling attention to this absence of Being, as in this 1982 presentation that he 
delivered to some 20,000 people in audiences in nine cities: 
“
and reality. I say that you and I live inside that gap, that there’s 
a chasm, a gap, between what you and I expect of life and what 
life really is. . . . I’m not talking about the gap between your 
dreams and reality. I’m talking about the gap between what you 
and I have a right to expect from life, and what we actually get 
from life. See, you and I have a right to expect our relationships 
to be deeply nurturing and really fulfilling, and for the most 
part they’re not. . . . You and I have a right, when we go to work 
for an organization, when we move from an individual expres-
sion to an organizational expression, we have a right to expect 
our aff iliation with that organization to empower us, to make an 
even bigger contribution than we could do as an individual. . . . 
You know, we’ve got a right to expect certain things from the 
government, and we don’t get it. Not fantasies. We have a right 
to expect certain things from the practice of our religion, and 
for the most part people don’t get it—what they have a right 
to expect. And it’s all over the place. There is a gap. And it’s a 
no-kidding gap. Something is missing. . . . And what [we—as the 
they-self—are] providing is not allowing it to show up. (“Taking 
a Stand for the Future”)
In responding to Being’s departure, both Heidegger and Erhard have focused their 
eff orts on the design of a new language. Heidegger’s most frequently quoted claim 
is that language is the house of Being (“LH” in BW 217). “In the word, in language,” 
he said, “things first come to be and are” (IM 15). That is, the language of one’s time 
SESSION TWO INTERVAL
The Forge tting of Being, Part Four of Eight: The Pre-Socratics
Martin Heidegger’s purpose as a philosopher was to think a way back to the 
greatness which was promised at the beginning of Western history, but which has 
remained unrealized due to the metaphysical tradition that has dominated human 
understanding. 
Historically, the term metaphysics has referred to the branch of philosophy that 
dealt with questions about the nature of things, about ultimate causes and that 
which does not change—questions, that is, about the nature of Being. This area 
of philosophical inquiry is now generally designated as ontology. In the normal 
course of events, most people, aside from academics and theologians, give little 
or no thought to the subjects of metaphysics and ontology, or even to Being. But 
Heidegger proposes that whether or not we are aware of it, the metaphysical 
tradition is deeply embedded in the way we understand the world. In our everyday 
lives, he says, this metaphysical understanding constrains our ability to be. 
We remind the reader again as we begin this Interval that we are engaged in 
an inquiry into something that is not something—that is, it does not fall within 
the range of phenomena that are readily available for us to think about. In his 
writing, Heidegger was persistent in his eff orts to indicate this mysterious aspect; 
for example, in the text of one of his later books (The Event) the word “Being” was 
repeatedly printed with a strikethrough. Here, the authors suggest that whenever 
the word “Being” (in its capitalized form) occurs in our writing, it might usefully be 
thought of as accompanied by a parenthetical question mark. 
From the beginning of his career, Martin Heidegger’s work as a philosopher 
was driven by the question of the human relationship to this mystery. According 
to Hubert Dreyfus, a scholar with whom Werner Erhard consulted while creating 
The Forum, Heidegger at some point had an experience of Being similar to the one 
elicited by Erhard’s work, and he “struggled all his life to find an adequate language 
to express it without falling, as he put it, into the ruts of metaphysics” (Assessment 2). 
Over the years, his articulation of the being/Being relationship evolved significantly, 
but his single-minded commitment to the question never wavered. At the heart 
of the inquiry was his sense that modern human beings are out of touch with this 
aspect of existence. It is as if, as Western culture has developed, Being has fled, 
and a critical element of human experience has been lost. 
The “ruts of metaphysics” mark the road Western thinking has traveled during 
the millennia since the time of Plato. The word itself is derived from the Greek 


=== END OF PAGE 222 ===

=== PAGE 223 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Two Interval 
209
and culture—the meanings, the values and standards, the art and the traditions, 
the metaphors—make available a particular way of understanding the world, and 
our lives are lived within the possibilities and limitations of that understanding. In 
our current understanding, made available by the metaphysical tradition, Being has 
been forgotten. In our world, there was no possibility of Being.
Therefore the work of both of these men was directed toward the creation 
of new terminology; and one of the terms that has been central for Erhard, and 
that has served the function of what might best be called “originary naming,” is 
languaging (see the “Primordial Metaphor: Clearing” sidebar in Session Two of Day 
Four). While the word language, as a noun, indicates a formal structure of words and 
rules and the uses toward which they are commonly put within a given linguistic 
community, “languaging” as a verb form indicates an action that is not merely 
putting the words and rules of language to use. Languaging indicates the action of 
generating new meanings, thereby creating new ways of understanding the world. 
The creation of distinctions, which is the central element of The Forum, is a process 
of languaging new contexts or clearings for understanding, which make possible 
new ways of being and acting in the world.
For Heidegger, thinking a way to the presence of Being involved not only the 
creation of a new vocabulary for the human condition, but also a thinking back 
into history to discover how the earliest philosophers in Western culture languaged 
their understanding of the world, and why this understanding devolved into the 
ideas of the metaphysical tradition. Students of Western philosophy generally begin 
their studies with Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle; these philosophers are the most 
familiar to us because in their work we find the beginnings of our own tradition of 
thinking. But there was an earlier group of thinkers in ancient Greece whose ideas 
are in some ways at odds with that tradition, men in whose thinking a possibility 
emerged briefly that was never thought again, and has since been forgotten. It is in 
the writing of these men that Heidegger finds what he is seeking.
David Farrell Krell, in his introduction to Heidegger’s Basic Writings, tells us 
that as a seventeen-year-old student, Heidegger read a German scholar’s thesis 
(Franz Brentano) on Aristotle’s understanding of Being. The experience provoked his 
thinking, and led him to seek out Aristotle’s own Metaphysics, where he found the 
question that would guide him for the rest of his life: “The question that was raised 
in earliest times, that we raise today and that will always be raised and will always 
be a matter of perplexity [is]: ti to on, What is being?” (Aristotle, Metaphysics, VII, 3, 
1028b, 2–4). Here Krell imagines Heidegger’s perplexity:
“
Had some Polonius asked the young man what he was reading 
in his two books on “being,” he might well have answered, 
“words, words, words.” German words from recent times trying 
to translate Latin words from a bygone age that were trying to 
translate Greek words from antiquity. But what were the Greek 
words trying to translate? (Krell, “Introduction,” BW 5, emphasis
W
added)
It was this mystery that ultimately led Heidegger to his etymological explorations of 
the earliest Greek philosophers. It puzzled him that although Aristotle’s writing had 
been foundational in the development of almost every area of human intellectual 
activity, his most profound question, while it had generated two thousand years 
of scholarly disputation on the subject of ontology, seemed now to have lost its 
meaning.
Heidegger’s focus in his quest was the work of those philosophers traditionally 
known as the pre-Socratics—particularly Heraclitus and Parmenides—who lived and 
wrote in the fift h and sixth centuries BCE. As Heidegger saw it, this brief historical 
period was a particularly explosive time in the evolution of human understanding. 
The pre-Socratics were not the first human beings to use language, but in 
Heidegger’s view, they were the first to consider the diff erence it made that they, 
among all beings, were the language-users; and they left  a written record of their 
thinking, of which only fragments remain. 
As the first philosophers of the West, these early thinkers made decisions about 
the meaning of what they saw, and their decisions set Western culture on the path 
which eventually evolved into the metaphysical tradition. “[W]e constantly return to 
the Greek conception of Being,” says Heidegger, “because this conception, though 
entirely flattened out and rendered unrecognizable, is the conception that still rules 
even today in the West—not only in the doctrines of philosophy but in the most 
everyday routines” (IM 64–65).
Therefore, to locate the source of this tradition and to discover how it might 
have been otherwise, Heidegger has turned to the writing of those philosophers. 
Their work survives only in brief fragments, but for Heidegger they provide 
evidence of a crucial moment in the history of the West. They speak of “what since 
ancient times is to-be-thought but is still unthought” (EGT 4). Here Krell, one of the 
translators of Early Greek Thinking, characterizes the fragments:


=== END OF PAGE 223 ===

=== PAGE 224 ===

210
SPEAKING BEING
“
Each is a truncated monument of thinking. Like the torso of a 
river god or the temple of Poseidon at Sounion, each fragment 
conveys a sense of loss, of tragic withdrawal and absence; yet 
each is a remnant of an exhilarating presence. . . .  (EGT 4)
T
Only indirectly do the fragments indicate their subject matter. . . .
These merest fragments seem to talk about everything, 
g all being, 
g
whatever is. We moderns are convinced that this is nonsense. . . .
(EGT 7)
T
But Heidegger reads these words with the eyes of a man who is relentless in his 
commitment to hear the language of Being; and what he has found provides us with 
a new perspective on the way Western thought has understood the world for two 
millennia (EGT Intro 5).
Is Heidegger’s understanding of pre-Socratic thinking credible? Is it persuasive? 
His reading challenges the traditional translations, and as Krell acknowledges, his 
interpretations are distressing, even violent:
“
Although Heidegger takes each word of the fragments 
seriously—rather because he does so—his thinking plies a 
dangerous, uncharted course which we are at pains to 
follow. . . . But it is the violence inherent in any attempt to 
cross over to that foreign shore, the violence by which we 
overcome inertia and translate ourselves to the matter of 
early Greek thinking. (EGT 11)
T
As we have noted in the last Interval (“The Forgetting of Being, Part Three of Eight”), 
several scholars find Heidegger’s etymologies controversial, including one of his 
recent translators, Richard Polt, who calls them idiosyncratic and oft en “fanciful,” 
and wonders whether Heidegger is “so attracted to the pre-Socratics because 
they survive only in fragments whose interpretation can easily be skewed in a 
Heideggerian direction” (HI 133). But Polt nevertheless concludes that despite their 
idiosyncrasy (or perhaps because of it), his readings succeed in shedding new light 
on the tradition. 
Heidegger reads the writing of the pre-Socratics to unconceal the language of 
Being. As we will see, what he finds has substantial relevance for our inquiry into the 
work of Werner Erhard.


=== END OF PAGE 224 ===

=== PAGE 225 ===



=== END OF PAGE 225 ===

=== PAGE 226 ===

212
SPEAKING BEING
When The Forum resumed at 4:30 pm, Kipp was on the platform. Erhard was present, seated on the 
platform’s edge. Kipp asked participants to share what they had found out about their lives. A young 
man named Tony stood and said that he had sensed “the joke of it all.” 
TONY (continuing)
I remembered when I was six my mom took me to Taiwan and once I got off  the plane there 
were all these children with missing fi ngers and hands and arms asking for money and I was 
terrifi ed. And I saw that everybody is afraid of everybody and that’s what’s wrong with this 
world. 
KIPP
When you got off  the airplane, what happened at that moment?
TONY
I felt really bad.
ERHARD
The most important thing you said is that it’s all a joke. That’s what we’ve been heading for the 
past couple of days. All that stuff  about rackets and being afraid and all that stuff —that’s not 
important. 
TONY
And I’ve been all afraid that “I’m not going to get what I came to get out of The Forum! I’m not 
going to be able to have what I want in my life.” 
ERHARD
You want to know what? You’re not!
TONY (laughing)
And now that we got that cleared...
ERHARD
Yeah, well, once everybody gets that cleared we can all go home.
TONY
There really is nothing to get.
ERHARD
That’s right.
TONY (laughing)
What the fuck am I doing in here?
FORUM DAY THREE: 
SESSION THREE


=== END OF PAGE 226 ===

=== PAGE 227 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 213
ERHARD
Wait. Wait. See you just ruined it.
TONY
I’m just kidding.
ERHARD
You’re like a block and a half ahead of everybody. We’ve got to get everybody caught up to 
you. That’s why we got to discuss this now. There when you were a block and a half ahead of 
everybody, you made it mean something. “Then why am I here?” Well, where else would you 
be if you weren’t here? You’d be some other stupid place. You’re here because you’re here. You 
want to start getting what he’s saying. It’s not really a soap opera. It’s really a joke. You know 
what a joke is? A joke is when you think the soap opera’s real. That’s a joke. The joke is when 
you think you’re going to get someplace. That’s a joke. That’s a joke.
TONY
That’s a fi x.
ERHARD
Exactly. And that thing about “that’s why the world doesn’t work”; no, the world works fi ne. 
It works just like this. And the idea that you’re going to make the world work, whatever that 
means to you, is another joke. Look around you. That’s the way it is. Just like this.
TONY 
But we’ve gotten what the rest of the world hasn’t gotten.
ERHARD
So what? The fucking walls are still the walls. The ceiling is still the ceiling. Life is still the way 
it is. 
TONY
But by being diff erent...
ERHARD
What do you mean by diff erent?
TONY
By going through what we’ve just been through.
ERHARD
You’re no diff erent.
TONY
Okay.


=== END OF PAGE 227 ===

=== PAGE 228 ===

214
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
Listen to me. You are exactly the way you are. You’re not the way you were, you are the way you are.
(interrupting Tony)
Have you ever not been the way you are?
TONY
I think I’ve always been the way I am.
ERHARD
And you want to know what? It’s going to be that way.
TONY
I’m just thinking that we’re more powerful now.
ERHARD
You’re more powerful than you were, so what? You’re as powerful as you are. And you’ve 
always been as powerful as you are. That’s part of that illusion, part of the fi x. More powerful. 
I’m going to tell you how all this work started for me. I spent my whole life learning how to 
make it, or making it. I’m smart, and I worked real hard at it. I studied everything and did 
everything. And then one day I was sitting in the car, and I realized I was never going to make 
it. I looked back at my life, and it was a joke. I spent thirty-four years of my life climbing a 
ladder, got to the top, and found that the ladder didn’t go to the top of the wall. I looked at all 
the other ladders and saw that they don’t go over the wall either. 
TONY
Why do they have to go up?
ERHARD
That’s the way being human is: climbing ladders that don’t go over the wall. That’s the joke. 
That’s what there is to get in here. You are not going to make it. You know what your life is 
about? You’re not going to make it. Whatever it’s about. I was real sad when I found that out, 
that I wasn’t going to make it. I’d spent thirty-four years trying, thirty-four years of anguish, 
thirty-four years of trying to look good. Terrible not to make it. I realized I was never going to be 
intelligent enough or good enough, honest enough or contribute enough, anything enough. 
TONY 
Is it bullshit to think you can make a diff erence? 
ERHARD
You make a diff erence if you do, you don’t if you don’t. And if you set up “making a diff erence” 
as over the wall, you’ll never get over the wall. You’re making “making a diff erence” the Holy 
Grail. No matter what you pick out, if you come through The Forum again three years later 
you’ll see it’s a joke. If you make it the Holy Grail, it’ll turn into a fucking joke.


=== END OF PAGE 228 ===

=== PAGE 229 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 215
Erhard sat on the edge of the platform as he interacted with Tony, watching him intently. 
TONY
Empowering others is what I want to do in life. 
ERHARD
And when you do it, you do it, and when you don’t, you don’t. And that’s the whole story.
TONY
I just want to keep doing it.
ERHARD (raising his voice and standing up to approach Tony)
You will if you do and you won’t if you don’t. And if you make it the Holy Grail you’ll make it 
into a fucking joke.
TONY (laughing)
Okay...
ERHARD
You get it?
TONY
Okay, so I won’t make it the Holy Grail.
ERHARD (sitting down again)
Yes you will. See, you just turned not making it into another making it. “I won’t make it! That’s 
the way I’ll make it, by not making it. That’s my new making it, that’s what’s going to get me 
over the wall.”
TONY
I’m not ever thinking about the wall, I just want to do...
ERHARD
So what? You want, so what? 
 
TONY
Okay.
ERHARD
The stars don’t move for “you want.”


=== END OF PAGE 229 ===

=== PAGE 230 ===

216
SPEAKING BEING
TONY
I’m okay with that.
ERHARD
Almost. You’re close to okay with that.
TONY
I just enjoy empowering others, and I discovered this recently...
ERHARD
So what? And you got hair.
TONY
Okay.
ERHARD
But you got it more than you got hair! You got it like some big goddamned thing. 
TONY
Yeah I do.
ERHARD
No, it’s a fart.
(laughter)
TONY
Look, I just discovered this for myself.
ERHARD
In about three minutes you’re going to be real deep in this thing. With your foot nailed to the 
fl oor about empowering others.
TONY
I discovered that’s what I want to do in life.
ERHARD
So what?
TONY
Okay, so what?


=== END OF PAGE 230 ===

=== PAGE 231 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 217
ERHARD
You think I’m saying “so what” like a put-down, but I’m not. I’m just saying “so what.” 
Now you’ll do that when you do and you won’t when you don’t. Just like you did before you 
discovered that. And then you’ll go on to some other asshole thing. Really. You were in a very 
good place when you stood up at fi rst. Stay there for a while. Really. Don’t you understand? 
Thirty-four years of trying to make it, I found out I never was going to make it. I got really 
clear I was never going to make it. Never going to be anything enough. I found out I was a liar 
once. There was a time when my whole life was a lie. But there was a moment when I found 
out that everything that came out of my mouth was phony. I decided to stop lying. I almost 
didn’t talk for a year, because I couldn’t get anything to come out of my mouth that wasn’t a 
lie. “Where’s the toothbrush?” was about as close as I could get. Whatever I said, it was in-
order-to, I was up to something, it was a con someplace at some level. What happened on that 
day this work began for me was I realized I was never going to be honest enough to make it. I 
was always going to be exactly as honest as I was. I was never going to be less honest or more 
honest than that. And if in three days I was going to be more honest, I was more honest, and 
if in three days I was going to be less honest, I was less honest. And however honest I was on 
that day, that’s how honest I was.  
TONY
What you’re talking about is living in the present.
ERHARD
No, not quite. I don’t like that hippie shit. That’s horseshit for me.
TONY
I just got something.
ERHARD
What?
TONY
That my whole life I needed a mission in order to feel great about my life.
ERHARD
See, you’ve never done anything. I realized I knew nothing, because everything I knew, I knew in 
order to: I knew nothing as itself. Everything I knew was distorted, had a certain twist to it, a cast 
of color. It was never its own color. Everything I knew in-order-to—in order to make the world a 
better place, in order to get ahead, in order to look good, in order to get ahead—is all horseshit in your 
mouth, because it all has to do with looking good. So there’s nothing ruthless about it Tony. None of 
it is itself. The tree is a tree: just a tree. It’s a tree. It’s not “in order to enjoy it.” It’s not “in order to” 
anything. It’s a tree, like, a fucking tree. So I was real sad for a long time—about fi ve minutes—
then I started to laugh because I saw the joke of it all: the total joke. Because the realization was, 
A chief quality that marks Being and Time as Heidegger’s masterwork 
is that while it was written at an early point in his long career, and 
although in later years his thinking took some significant turns, 
Being and Time has nonetheless retained its stature. We see this as 
evidence for the presence of the Same in Heidegger’s thinking over 
time—the single thought that lies at the heart of every thinker’s 
thinking, and remains always unthought in that thinking (we will 
take up “The Same” in the sidebar of that title following “The 
Violence of Meaning,” which follows this one). 
As a narrative, Being and Time tells the story of Dasein, 
which arcs from inauthentic lostness in the “they” to authentic 
resoluteness. If, as Hubert Dreyfus suggests, we take Dasein to 
stand for human being, then as the being who understands, who 
interprets its self, Dasein must have a self that undergoes this 
adventure. But the self of Dasein, as Heidegger distinguishes it, is 
not the familiar ontic/psychological self—not the accumulation 
of experiences and preferences that is generally represented 
when one says “I.” Rather: “Dasein’s selfhood has been defined 
formally as a way of existing, and therefore not as an entity 
present-at-hand” (BT 312). The self of Dasein is not a being, but a 
way of Being. If there is no “I” to choose, how is choice, and the 
freedom it posits, even possible? 
In its current manifestation, the specific way the self of Dasein 
occurs for itself is determined by the interests of the “they” (please 
see the last sidebar of Day Two Session One). The rules, the tasks, 
and the standards have been determined before Dasein was thrown 
into the game, to assure the survival of the “they,” and that’s the 
way the world is. 
But the real issue in this situation is not that Dasein’s choices 
are limited; the problem is that they are not yet Dasein’s choices. 


=== END OF PAGE 231 ===

=== PAGE 232 ===

218
SPEAKING BEING
“I can’t not in-order-to.” I didn’t invent in-order-to; “Making it” invented me. They had that party 
and I got there late. And they said what it is to be a human being, the kind of being a human being 
is, is attempting to make it, to look good. That’s what it is to be a human being. And everything 
you’re going to do is going to be that. See, you started out this conversation in a great place and there 
have been a few changes since then. And when we’re done with this conversation we’re going to be 
in a great place and then go through even more changes. ‘Cause you’ll have a new kind of making it. 
For some people in this room, “making it” is not making it. They make it by not making it. It’s a trap. 
It’s a fucking trap. That’s what it is to be human. The other side of it is, all those balls and chains I 
was carrying around for years, they all dropped. You know, I was sad for a while, but then I got the 
joke. It’s all a joke. You’re not going to make it. You know what? It isn’t going to work out. It is not 
going to work out. You will never meditate enough, or work hard enough, or have your fortune told 
enough, or get enough information, or be smart enough, or be holy enough, or practice enough, or 
say your prayers enough, or be sexy enough, old enough, young enough, or think enough, or tough 
enough to make it. See, some people are trying to survive. That’s also a joke. You’re going to die and 
they’re going to stick you in a hole in the ground and throw dirt in your face. It is not going to work 
out. That’s how survival is going to work out. You’re going to keep climbing the ladder and keep 
climbing the ladder and at the top of the ladder, there’s going to be a hole there, and they’re going to 
stick you in there and throw dirt in your face. And that’s how survival is going to work out. It is not 
going to work out. It is not going to work out. You are never going to make enough of a diff erence to 
make a diff erence. You are always not going to have made a diff erence enough. It isn’t going to turn 
out. This is the whole Forum, you might as well get it. The rest is just polish. 
Erhard spoke very slowly and deliberately to the group at this point.
ERHARD (continuing)
It is not going to turn out. And you know why it’s not going to turn out? Because it already 
turned out. This is how it turned out. Nobody notices that. You made it. This is it. It’s not 
gonna turn out. It did turn out. This is the way it turned out. And you fucked it up. You’re still 
struggling. What would it mean if you did make a diff erence? So what? You make a diff erence. 
Okay fi ne, so what? 
TONY
It’s “so what?” because...
ERHARD
No “because.” Don’t fuck it up with “because.” It’s “so what?” because this is what’s so. That’s 
why it’s “so what?” It’s just like this. This is how it turned out. You don’t like that, do you? You 
didn’t want it to turn out this way. It wasn’t supposed to turn out like this, it was supposed to 
turn out some other way. Too bad. This is the way it turned out. It doesn’t care that you don’t 
like it. 
TONY
There’s still something up for me. 
The inauthenticity arises not from the situation, but from Dasein’s 
way of being with this situation. 
Choosing: Appropriating
And here we encounter one of Heidegger’s most important reversals 
of everyday thinking, a move that has been central in Werner Erhard’s 
rhetorical technology since its inception. 
In our tradition, if one finds oneself stuck in a process generated 
by choices one did not make, the action indicated by the situation 
is clearly the making of new choices. But consider Heidegger’s 
alternative and somewhat tricky perspective:
This process can be reversed only if Dasein
specifically brings itself back to itself from its 
lostness in the “they.” But this bringing-back
must have that kind of Being by the neglect of 
which Dasein has lost itself in inauthenticity.
(BT 312–313)
“
What has Dasein neglected? It has neglected to choose; therefore, it 
must make up for not choosing. But “‘making up’ for not choosing 
signifies choosing to make this choice”—that is, choosing to make 
the choice not to choose. “In choosing to make this choice, Dasein 
makes possible, first and foremost, its authentic potentiality-for-
Being” (BT 313).
ERHARD (continuing)
The “they” has always kept Dasein from taking
hold of these possibilities of Being. The “they”
even hides the manner in which it has tacitly
relieved Dasein of the burden of explicitly
choosing these possibilities. It remains indef-
inite who has “really” done the choosing. So
Dasein makes no choices, gets carried along by
the nobody, and thus ensnares itself in inau-
thenticity. (BT 312)
“


=== END OF PAGE 232 ===

=== PAGE 233 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 219
ERHARD
You’re a human being. There’s always going to be something up for you. Your life is always 
going to be a soap opera. And it’s always going to be a joke. And every once and a while you’ll 
come back to me and get it again.
TONY
I just want to know one thing.
ERHARD
If we get this one thing it’s going to change everything, right? It’s not going to be the way it is, 
it’ll be some other way if you get this. If you get this one thing answered, just this one thing.
TONY
Where does God fi t into all this? 
ERHARD
Remember I said I didn’t discuss God with people who don’t know their ass from a hole in the 
ground.
TONY
Yeah, believe me, there’s a hole in the ground right over there. This is really big for me.
ERHARD
What?
TONY
Having God in my life, and that God makes a diff erence in other people’s lives.
ERHARD
That’s fi ne. Yeah, but you want to make that diff erent than a fart.
TONY
Sure I do.
ERHARD
No, that’s disgusting. If you got God in your life, you’ve got God in your life. That’s all.
TONY
But if you have God in your life then you have purpose in your life.
ERHARD
Really? It’s not going to end with you being put in the ground and dirt being thrown in your 
face?
While these passages are from Heidegger’s early work, and the 
distinction appropriation became central in his later thinking, we 
propose that the unspoken Same can be heard in both cases. This 
intensely reflexive movement of thinking, called forth repeatedly 
throughout the four days of The Forum and culminating in Session 
Two of Day Four, is central to the achievement of its transformational 
outcome. It is also deeply embedded in Heidegger’s distinction 
appropriation, a term which suggests the taking-ownership of 
something that is already at some level one’s own. ■


=== END OF PAGE 233 ===

=== PAGE 234 ===

220
SPEAKING BEING
TONY
It will end that way.
ERHARD
It will. And you want to know what? You’ll be just like you are, whether or not you have God in 
your life. I didn’t say there was something wrong with having God in your life. I didn’t say there 
was something right with it. You want to turn this “God in my life” stuff  into another fucking 
racket. You do. You don’t like that idea. 
TONY
If you have the concept of God you have to believe that there’s a better place.
ERHARD
Who said that? The Pope?
TONY
Who the fuck is the Pope?
ERHARD
It’s just you talking. I didn’t say it wasn’t true. I just don’t want you to turn this into another 
fucking racket. God is not going to save your ass. Your ass is going into a hole. 
TONY
It’s already gone. Great. So if I have God in my life I have God in my life, if I don’t I don’t.
ERHARD
Exactly. That’s the fucking truth isn’t it?
TONY
That is the truth.
ERHARD
Right. You want to make some bullshit out of that. 
TONY
Everybody does.
ERHARD
You want to make that mean something. I know everybody does, that’s why I got a job.
(applause)
TONY
Yeah, well, I want your job. 


=== END OF PAGE 234 ===

=== PAGE 235 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 221
ERHARD
You don’t want my job: I’m a throwaway. You turn God into another racket, another way to 
be right and make others wrong, another way to avoid the domination of the responsibility to 
be human. They’re going to put your ass in a hole in the ground and throw dirt in your face 
and that’s the end of that story. Don’t turn that into more bullshit. And don’t do it because 
everybody else does. Tony, you kind of got there early. And it’s important to go through all the 
parts of the conversation. We’re going to do that. Stick around. Thanks
TONY
Thank you.
Participants continued to share their experiences from the day. 
BETH
When I did the last session, I immediately felt ripped off , because my girlfriend took this last 
month. I already knew what was going to happen through the whole thing, and I...
ERHARD
Didn’t make that much of a diff erence, though, knowing what was going to happen, did it? 
BETH
Right. And it’s because I didn’t stop myself and a lot of times I stop myself. And so I thought, 
“okay, I’m going to do it,” and so I closed my eyes, and I was... stuck. And I thought: “Okay, I 
want to get out of this” because I was thinking that this person was supposed to kill me and 
the person next to me was going to kill me and that was too far removed from me. And so I 
said okay, what other kind of fear do I have? And that kind of fear was the fear of intimacy. 
(crying)
And that...
ERHARD
Slow down. Slow down. Go ahead.
BETH
That made me sad. But I felt good about being sad, because I was doing the process and I didn’t 
stop myself and I still have the fear of intimacy. And I stop myself a lot of times by not taking 
risks. 
ERHARD
And you made a soap opera out of it.
(to the group)
And you stopped yourself a lot of times and you don’t take risks and that’s sad and you tried 
and you struggled and then you gave up and fi gured the hell with it, and tried to be something 


=== END OF PAGE 235 ===

=== PAGE 236 ===

222
SPEAKING BEING
else instead of trying to be intimate and then you found out that that was no good, and so then 
you went back to try to be intimate, and nah nah nah nah nah nah nah, nah nah nah nah nah, 
nah nah, nah nah nah nah nah. 
BETH
Right.
ERHARD (to the group)
Now I’m talking about you, not her. She just happens to be standing up so we got some way to 
talk to you. You don’t want to listen to her soap opera. You want to listen to your soap opera, 
your “what happened,” and the sad, and the struggle, the eff ort, and the sacrifi ce that you have 
made, nah nah nah nah nah nah nah. Great, go on, you’re doing a good job.
(Beth remains silent)
What does that mean that you avoid intimacy? I don’t want to put words in your mouth if that’s 
not the way you said it. Say it the way you said it. What does it mean?
BETH
That... I’m talking about a personal relationship...
ERHARD
I’m not asking you to explain it, I’m asking what it means. So what?
BETH
So what?
ERHARD
Yeah, so what? I asked you fi rst.
BETH
You mean, what do I do?
ERHARD
No, so what?
BETH
Yeah.
ERHARD
I mean, so what?
BETH
I avoid intimacy.
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 236 ===

=== PAGE 237 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 223
ERHARD
Yeah.
BETH
That I don’t take risks.
ERHARD
So what?
BETH
So what? I know...
ERHARD
I asked you fi rst. So what “you avoid risks”? 
BETH
Yeah.
ERHARD
You avoid risks. You made that into some kind of crummy meaning. You know what? You 
avoid risks. Okay. You turned it into a soap opera. You made it mean something. You put 
violins in the back, and turned it into some meaning. What does it mean that you avoid risks? 
It doesn’t mean anything. Rocks are hard. You know what that means? Nothing. They’re just 
hard. You avoid risks. What does that mean? Nothing. I’m getting older. What does that mean? 
Nothing. I didn’t succeed in life. What does that mean? Nothing. I had a divorce. What does 
that mean? Nothing... but I had two divorces. What does that mean? Two nothings. But I’m 
not worthy. So what you’re not worthy? You’re going to make a federal case out of it? You’re 
not worthy. I got that. Now what? You want to make something out of it. It does not mean 
anything! It’s meaningless. Does it mean something that rocks are hard? What about the 
spirits-in the-rocks shit? More fucking voodoo. 
(laughter)
Voodoo! You avoid risks. I got it. “Oh, but you don’t understand.” What you mean is, I don’t 
get all the meaning and drama and turmoil and soap opera and the sadness and upset. You’re 
right. I don’t get that. That’s your crap. What I get is that you avoid intimacy. I got that. Rocks 
are hard. Water’s wet. And you avoid intimacy. And each one of those has an equal amount of 
signifi cance. But you made a big deal out of avoiding intimacy. Turned it into a whole fucking 
soap opera. You know, it’s back and forth. Sometimes Beth resists that and tries to be intimate. 
And sometimes she succumbs to it and gives up the attempt to be intimate. She changes so that 
she’s more intimate. Is that getting clearer?
BETH
Yeah. I’m going to take a risk. 


=== END OF PAGE 237 ===

=== PAGE 238 ===

224
SPEAKING BEING
BETH (to the group) 
All available men: see me at the break.
ERHARD
Very good trolling. Have them line up.
(to the group)
There was a little something you didn’t get out of that. 
Erhard held up his hands and stuck one index fi nger into the circled fi ngers of the other hand, 
making a gesture indicating the sex act.
ERHARD
This is very signifi cant. God and that. 
Erhard looked over at Angel, the participant who had shared the day before about being twice-
divorced.
ERHARD
What are you doing over there, Angel?
ANGEL (angrily)
What do you mean nothing means anything?
ERHARD (to Angel)
I didn’t say “nothing means anything.”
(making the sex-act gesture)
I said this... means this. Stand up. 
(to the group)
How would you like to carry around what she carries around?
ANGEL
You gave me something yesterday, and you just now took it away.
ERHARD
And you turned it into shit when I gave to you. And I didn’t give it to you anyhow; you gave it 
to your self, but then you turned it into shit, because you made it mean something, and now 
you’ve got a new soap opera. The old soap opera was “I was divorced twice.” Now you got a new 
soap opera. Can you not see that you’re stuck and you have a conversation with Kipp and me to 
get unstuck? Then we bring up some new thing and then you get stuck again. You’re a series of 
stucks, one after the other after the other after the other, making up stucks. Tell us your story 
here. What is it that’s bothering you? Tell Kipp.


=== END OF PAGE 238 ===

=== PAGE 239 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 225
ANGEL
Nothing.
ERHARD
Oh bullshit.
KIPP
Try again. Stand up.
ERHARD
You’re a long way from nothing. When he’s done...
ANGEL (angrily)
So what? 
ERHARD
When he’s done with you, you may get to nothing. Right now you’re something.
ANGEL
Why is it important for me to be nothing?
KIPP
Well, how is something treating you right now?
ANGEL
I don’t know how to be nothing.
ERHARD (interrupting Kipp to address the group)
What you’re watching, what this is designed to do, is to let you look down to the very 
foundation of what the already always being of human beings is. You’re going to get to see 
whence you came. In this conversation—it’s gonna take hours, and given how stupid you are, 
it’s gonna take a lot of hours—and what you’re going to see if you’re watching, is whence you 
came. I mean you. What a “you” is, what an “I” is, what a “me” is. This is whence it comes. 
Remember what I said earlier about working backwards? We’re going to get all the way 
down to the bottom, to the source of you. And this is the conversation in which we’re going to 
do it. And if you watch here, and map this on to your own life, you’ll get to see where you 
came from. 
(pausing)
This is where you came from. You didn’t come from your mother. You got your body from your 
mother. This is where you came from. Remember I told you the fi rst half of The Forum was 
the already always being of human being? This is you “already always.” She sat down yesterday 
beautifully unstuck. Now she’s as stuck as she was yesterday. By the time we fi nish this 
conversation most of you will be unstuck. And by tomorrow you will be stuck again. Because 
What you’re watching, what this is designed to 
do, is to let you look down to the very founda-
tion of what the already always being of human 
beings is.
“


=== END OF PAGE 239 ===

=== PAGE 240 ===

226
SPEAKING BEING
that’s what it is to be human. To be stuck. You don’t like it, too bad. Stay in California. Then you 
can play stuck trying to get unstuck. You understand stuck trying to get unstuck?
(very loudly)
You are stuck trying to get unstuck, you asshole!
KIPP
So Angel, what did you give meaning to?
ANGEL
Life.
KIPP
No. You were going along fi ne, right?
ANGEL
I was going along great. 
KIPP
That’s right, you were going along great.
ERHARD
And you made going along great mean something, didn’t you?
ANGEL
Yes.
ERHARD
Yeah, you turned it into a fucking soap opera. You want to get that, you want to get that real 
clear because you’re going to do the same thing. You will do it. I’m not telling you about it so 
that you won’t do it. That’ll make a fool out of me. ‘Cause you will do it. Remember I said “ride 
the horse in the direction it’s going”? I walk out to the street and watch for which way the traffi  c 
is going. I point in the direction it’s going. Someone says, “Jesus, that guy makes the traffi  c go 
in that direction. Look at that guy! He makes everything go the way he makes it go.” I’m just 
telling you so that I’m pointing in the direction you’re going anyhow. No sense pointing in the 
other direction. That’s stupid. 
KIPP
So, you made what mean something?
ANGEL
That I don’t care.
The Violence of Meaning
Human beings are the animals with language. As a result, we 
awake daily into a meaningful understanding of the world. We 
assign meaning to everything that exists and everything that 
occurs; we are compelled to know what things mean, and cannot 
stand not to know. 
To understand the depth of our attachment to meaning, 
consider Martin Heidegger’s view: language was not a property 
that was somehow granted to human beings; it was only through 
language that human beings became human beings. The impulse 
to mean and know is constitutive of our being. It is so much the 
way we are that we cannot recognize its downside, which is that 
our death-grip on meaning is the source of most of our problems. 
So in any deep exploration of human being, such as that 
conducted in The Forum, it is essential to consider the function 
of meaning, as well as the process by which meanings emerge in 
the world, and are—or are not—maintained there. How did the 
world occur; how did human beings occur? In the writing of the 
pre-Socratic Greek philosophers, Heidegger finds this perspective: 
the beings currently in the world are there because human beings 
spoke them into being. Further, in doing so, we were at the same 
time creating ourselves as human beings.
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 240 ===

=== PAGE 241 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 227
KIPP
Yesterday you saw something about not caring.
ANGEL
I saw that it was okay to care sometimes and sometimes I don’t.
KIPP
Right. 
ANGEL
It’s not okay to have life mean something sometimes and for sometimes life not to mean 
anything.
ERHARD
It never means anything. It doesn’t mean something sometimes and not mean something at 
other times. Life is empty and meaningless.
ANGEL
Then why should I be alive? Then I shouldn’t be alive. Dead.
KIPP
Then you would be dead. 
ERHARD
You know what you just did? I said life is empty and meaningless and you made that mean 
something. I said life was empty and meaningless and you got sad about it. “Really? Ohh. We’ll 
maybe I’ll just lie down now and watch television.” 
ANGEL
And so just because you say life is meaningless I should believe it? 
ERHARD
I didn’t say to believe anything. Didn’t I tell you up front not to believe anything I say?
ANGEL
Yes, I forgot.
ERHARD
The truth speaks for itself, it does not need me. At any rate, when I said “empty and 
meaningless,” you said, “oh my God, oh that’s terrible.” You made empty and meaningless 
mean something. You’re a drama queen.
ANGEL (vehemently)
Yes, I am.
Man, insofar as he exists as man, has always 
already spoken out about physis [Being],
about the prevailing whole to which he himself 
belongs. Man has done so not only through 
the fact and for the purpose of talking specifi-
cally about things; for to exist as man already
means: to make whatever prevails come to be 
spoken out. (FCM 26, emphasis added)
“
In order to be spoken about, beings must be spoken out. For the 
Greeks, “speaking is called legein; the prevailing that has been 
spoken out is the logos” (FCM 26). But Heidegger suggests a more 
original meaning for both words: legein, in its original meaning, was 
not to speak, but to gather and collect, or to lay out; Logos, as what 
is gathered and laid before us, was the primary gathering principle. 
This “original” meaning of logos, then, draws our attention to 
whatever is there before it is articulated—before the emergence 
of judgment, the assertion of opinion, and the contradiction of 
perspectives. These are all of course inevitable. But the writing 
of the pre-Socratics suggests to Heidegger that at the dawn of 
humanity, something was available to human apprehension, a 
logos, which now escapes us. 
For Heraclitus, it was the logos, the background of collected-
ness, the sway in the event of its emergence into the world. The 
meaninglessness from which beings emerge cannot maintain 
itself in a world of meaning, but for a moment in history, for those 
who were open to its emergence, it was glimpsed. Heraclitus 
suggests that it remains available, but that human beings as a 
whole—the hoi polloi—are unavailable for glimpsing it.
But while logos constantly remains itself, 
human beings behave as those who do not 
comprehend (axunetoi), both before they have
heard and aft er they have heard. . . . Hence one 
must follow the Together in beings—that is, 
adhere to it; but whereas logos essentially un-
folds as this Together in beings, the mass lives 
as if each had his own understanding (sense). 
(Heraclitus, fragments 1–2, in IM 140–141)
“


=== END OF PAGE 241 ===

=== PAGE 242 ===

228
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD 
All right. And proud of it. 
ANGEL
And sometimes I’m not.
ERHARD
Where is the chip queen? I’m going to get you two together. You can have a meeting. That 
would be great. Talk about movies. That’s real entertainment: the drama queen and the chip 
queen together. Angel, do you understand that I’m not trying to make you not be the way you 
are? I’m simply trying to shed some light where you stand. I don’t want you to not be the way 
you are. I know you’re a drama queen. You’re always going to be into the drama. And I didn’t 
say that’s bad. But you want to make everything mean something. You screw yourself over every 
time because you make it mean something.
ANGEL
Isn’t it human to make everything mean something? 
ERHARD
That’s what I said. We were going to reveal the already always nature of being for human beings.
ANGEL
So what I got was that I am a human being and I can’t get away from being a human being. And 
I spent a lot of time and eff ort trying not to be a human being.
ERHARD
Very good, but now you’ve turned that into a sacred cow. You’ve turned being a human being 
into a sacred cow. “Now the son of a bitch wants to take away my new sacred cow from me.”
ANGEL
And my new sacred cow is being a human being.
ERHARD
Yeah, you turned that into some kind of a story. Instead of just being a human being you turned 
that into a soap opera, a drama. Life doesn’t mean anything, sweatheart. It doesn’t mean a thing.
ANGEL
You don’t know how upset that makes me. 
ERHARD
I understand that it makes you upset. I told you, this is my second Forum. I told you when I 
found that out I was real upset. 
ANGEL
But then what did you do with it? 
Heidegger develops this distinction further:
Heraclitus wants to say: human beings do hear,
and they hear words, but in this hearing they
cannot “hearken” to, that is, follow, what is
not audible like words, what is not talk but 
logos. . . . But genuine hearkening has nothing 
to do with the ear and the glib tongue, but 
instead means obediently following what logos 
is: the gatheredness of beings themselves. 
(IM 142–143)
“
Logos, Being, the Together in beings, is the unspoken background 
that emerges to be glimpsed in the dialogue of The Forum. 
If we are listening for the logos, we may hear the gathering in 
Heidegger’s words of one of his most important and provocative 
hints: his persistent play at the fuzzy boundary between Being 
and beings. By teasing out, over a fift y-year career, the question 
of agency in the Being–being relation, Heidegger provided human 
thinking with an essentially reflexive quandary, one whose 
thinking through may catapult us into a leap and land us with a 
more liberated understanding of the world. 
Heidegger’s early take on this question, in Being and Time,
was that Dasein achieves an authentic existence through the 
achievement of resoluteness, and the existential choices thereby 
made available. One of those choices is to stop fleeing one’s reality 
and let it be, recognizing that its meanings are made up and 
malleable: “When Dasein is resolute, it takes over authentically 
in its existence the fact that it is the null basis of its own nullity” 
(BT 354). In The Forum, this authentic taking-over of existence 
is made possible by the distinction of nullity (life is empty and 
meaningless), and of oneself as the null basis of that nullity (it’s 
empty and meaningless that it’s empty and meaningless). 
In his later rubrics, releasement and appropriation, Heidegger 
moved toward the more receptive side of the Being–being balance, 
bringing letting and allowing forward as moments in the attainment 
of authenticity. But the clearing opened through all of these 
articulations is the Same, emerging in the unspoken reverberations 
as the distinction is teased out. “Hints,” said Heidegger, “need the 
widest sphere in which to swing” (“DL” in OWL 27). ■


=== END OF PAGE 242 ===

=== PAGE 243 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 229
ERHARD
I got over being upset. It not only doesn’t mean anything... 
(pausing)
Listen. Life is not only empty and meaningless, but it is empty and meaningless that it is empty 
and meaningless. See, some asshole in here is going to say, “Well, if it’s empty and meaningless 
then I’m going home.” 
(loudly) 
No! You made it mean something! You didn’t get it. It’s empty and meaningless and it’s empty 
and meaningless that it’s empty and meaningless. Life’s not going anywhere. It’s like this. You 
don’t like this? Too bad. This is the way it is. Just like this, and that, and that. Tomorrow will be 
like it is tomorrow, and the day after will be like it is the day after tomorrow. And a year from 
now will be like it is a year from now: like it is today. A lot of you are hearing me insulting 
your practice. You know, insulting your practice, let’s call it, your relationship with God, your 
meditation, whatever it is. I’m not insulting your practice. I’m insulting practicing in-order-to. 
You practice when you practice. Shut up. Just practice. It’s not going to get you anywhere. If 
you’re practicing in order to get somewhere, stop it because you’re wasting your time. You’re 
not going to get anywhere. You’re always going to be right where you are. If you practice long 
enough, you’ll fi nd that out. Talk to Kipp some more, you’re doing a good job.
KIPP
Now what?
ANGEL
That’s a very good question.
ERHARD
Very good...
ANGEL
I like the fact that...
ERHARD
Remember when I said that you thought your fi re would go out if you didn’t have this drama? 
ANGEL
Right.
ERHARD
Yes.
ANGEL
But I got fi re from the possibility of having an empty canvas. 


=== END OF PAGE 243 ===

=== PAGE 244 ===

230
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
I know. You turned that into another fi re: drama, meaning, signifi cance. You take everything 
and turn it into shit. We create something called possibility and you turn it into some kind of 
fucking golden calf. Like “oh! That’s going to save me. Man, am I glad I got here! I didn’t know 
that was the answer.” The answer is that there isn’t any answer. That’s the answer. No kidding. 
Like really. You can go anywhere in the universe you want to go to get the answer. And that’s 
the answer. Whatever it is you’re doing to make it, you’re never going to do that enough to make 
it. It isn’t going to turn out because it already turned out. And this is the way it turned out. Just 
like this. Tomorrow will be just like it is tomorrow. And when you die, they’ll put you into a box 
and throw dirt on your face. And that’s how it’ll all turn out. It doesn’t mean anything.
ANGEL
So now that I know that, why not throw dirt in my face right now? 
ERHARD
That’s making it mean something. And it’s high drama meaning. You could have said, “I’ll go 
watch television.” You could have said that but it’s not dramatic enough. There are people in 
here that are not high dramatists like you are. Some people say “I’ll go home and watch the 
game.” Yours is “I’ll kill myself.” It’s just a matter of style. You watch. The world’s going to 
change here. It’s going to stop being the way it is.
KIPP
What now? Can you see how attached you are to having it mean something? 
ANGEL
Yes. Yesterday I was attached to caring which meant it means something.
KIPP
Yeah, and so what you’re attached to is being attached.
ERHARD
That’s a little advanced for most of you.
ANGEL
So, if I’m not attached to it anymore, it doesn’t mean it’s not still there. It just means I’m not 
attached to it anymore.
ERHARD
No. That’s some kind of Zen horseshit. You are not attached to it. You’re not attached to it, and 
that’s the end of that story. 
ANGEL
If I’m not resisting it, then I’m not attached to it anymore.
Speaking out
Another aspect of this perspective: in speaking out, we are 
“outing” something that has already existed, in the background, 
as a possibility. Indeed: “If we conceive of this state of aff airs in an 
elementary and originary way, we see that what is spoken out is 
already necessarily within physis, otherwise it could not be spoken 
from out of it” (FCM 26). Heidegger presses the point: everything 
that exists has been spoken out, and everything that has been 
spoken out was already there. So: 
The question for us is: What does this legein,
this speaking out accomplish? What occurs in
the logos? Is it only a matter of the fact that 
what beings as a whole are is brought to a
word, formulated, come to word? To come to
word—what does that mean? (FCM 26–27)
“
To understand the meaning of a term or concept, says Heidegger, 
it may be useful to consider its opposite. He finds in a fragment of 
Heraclitus the suggestion that the opposite of legein—that is, “not 
letting come to word”—was for the Greeks precisely understood as 
concealment:
From this it necessarily follows that the funda-
mental function of legein is to take whatever 
prevails from concealment. . . . Revealing, ‘tak-
ing from concealment,’ is that happening which
occurs in the logos. In the logos, the prevailing
of beings becomes revealed, becomes mani-
fest. (FCM 27)
“


=== END OF PAGE 244 ===

=== PAGE 245 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 231
This, then, is what is happening in our speaking out: we speak out 
from concealment; we unconceal a world of beings. How fortunate we 
are that we have the ability to create meanings, and can thereby live in 
a world of culture and technology, and reap their benefits. 
But there is of course a qualifier to the promise in this 
situation, which Heidegger finds elsewhere in Heraclitus’ writing:
ERHARD
Zen bullshit.
ANGEL
I’m from California.
ERHARD
That’s right. What was the last thing you said Kipp?
KIPP
You’re attached to being attached.
ERHARD (indicating Angel)
It was you. An emerging bit of light here. Attached to meaning. That’s what it was. He said you 
were attached to meaning, and you said yesterday I was attached to caring and that made it 
mean something. And today I’ve gotten down an even more fundamental level, “I’m attached 
to meaning.” 
ANGEL
Yeah.
ERHARD
Yeah. You are attached to meaning. That’s what there is to get. You are stuck with meaning. 
You have no freedom. Everything’s got to be made to mean something. Everything’s got to be 
made signifi cant. That’s the drama queen.
ANGEL
I don’t see what’s left.
ERHARD
So I’m gonna tell you. You want to know what’s left? Nothing. What’s left is nothing. I told you 
we were going to work our way back to zero. This is zero. 
ANGEL
I can’t be with zero.
ERHARD
I know. I told you it made me real sad. It’s not going to be all right. It’s going to be the way it is. 
What there is to be with is that life is empty and meaningless. That’s what there is to be with. It 
is not going to turn out. It is not going to be all right. It’s going to be whatever fucking way it is. 
However it is.
ANGEL
No matter what I do? 
Being loves to hide. Why this is so is a question for which Heidegger 
does not specify an answer, since the question must be left  open. 
In the swinging of that open question, thinking may distinguish 
new paths into Being. For example, if The Forum is a conversation 
for the emergence of Being, and if Being strives to conceal itself, 
then interesting implications emerge about the nature of The 
Forum experience, which we continue to explore and unfold in 
these sidebars and intervals. ■
[I]f prevailing is torn from concealment in the
logos, then it must, as it were, try to conceal 
itself. The very same Heraclitus tells us in
addition . . . why physis came to be revealed 
and torn from concealment explicitly in legein. 
In the collection of fragments one sentence
stands alone which to this day has never been 
understood or comprehended in its profundity: 
“The prevailing of things has in itself a striving 
to conceal itself.” (FCM 27, emphasis added)
“


=== END OF PAGE 245 ===

=== PAGE 246 ===

232
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
Yeah, but see, there’s something a little off  in that, because you’re only going to do what you’re 
going to do. People don’t do what they want to do; they do what they do. You always do what 
you do. And you don’t always do what you want to do, do you? The only time you do what you 
wanted to do is when it’s coincidentally what you did. You aren’t doing what you wanted to 
do; you’re doing what you do. And you got this God damned story about wants. People don’t 
do what they want to do; they do what they do, always and only. “Want to” is a story. Like 
explaining illness with evil spirits. Voodoo. The stars will not move for what you want. You do 
what you do, and you don’t do what you don’t do. And all the rest of it is some cockeyed story 
that destroys the simplicity, the power, the sweetness of the way it is. Look, did you ever notice 
you are never ever fucking satisfi ed? Ever! It doesn’t make any diff erence how good it is. It never 
makes a diff erence what you achieve. Ever. Ever! You just can’t get that this is it. Kipp, tell them 
about the practice life. Do your thing about the playing cards. 
KIPP
The playing cards of life...
Kipp held up a pad of paper—as if they were cards—up to his chest.
KIPP
What it is to be a human being is to hold on to your aces. Because you know, that one time in 
life when you gave away everything...
ERHARD
When you were a kid one time, you gave away your aces and you got smashed... Every one of 
you. And from then on, you became “I don’t play my aces.” It wasn’t a decision merely or a 
thought merely, from then on you became “I don’t play my aces.”
KIPP
You became what is known as a smart person. What a smart person looks like is a person who 
walks around holding their aces. Then along came Einstein, and Einstein said the problems that 
we got are not going to be solved with the way that we think we got into those problems... 
ERHARD (interrupting Kipp) 
Hold on, don’t fuck that quote up. 
KIPP
You fuck it up.
(laughter)
ERHARD
The problems we have are not going to be solved at the level in which we created them. What 
does that mean? It’s real simple. You got someplace in life. People have gotten someplace in 
People don’t do what they want to do; they do
what they do. You always do what you do. And 
you don’t always do what you want to do, do 
you? The only time you do what you wanted to 
do is when it’s coincidentally what you did.
“


=== END OF PAGE 246 ===

=== PAGE 247 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 233
life. What got you there gives you the problems you got. It’s not that you fucked something 
up on the way. It’s that you succeeded. If you use what you got to get where you are, it 
produces success and a certain set of problems. You cannot solve those problems with that 
with which you succeeded, because those problems are a product of that which you used 
to succeed. Did you get that? Those problems are a product of getting here, and you can’t 
solve those problems with what got you here. Because what got you here, got you here and 
gave you those problems. You can’t solve the problems you have at the level at which you 
generated the problems.
KIPP
So what’s required is a new level of thinking. Here’s what that looks like: You want all my aces? 
Here! 
Kipp threw forward the pieces of paper representing his aces.
KIPP
But you can’t do that because if you did, you’d get used by life.
ERHARD
He’s a little too funny. And you don’t get it. You fucking assholes! You held on to your aces so 
you wouldn’t get used. You’re going to go to your grave holding your aces.
Kipp continued the bit, very fl amboyantly demonstrating not giving aces away to this wife, this job, 
etc.
KIPP
See, I wasn’t going to give my aces to my wife Christine, because she wasn’t the one. You 
know what the one looks like. Tall, blonde, always rides the horse and never wears clothes. So 
anytime I would be at a party with Christine, I wouldn’t stand too close to her in case the one 
came riding in on the horse, I could just jump on and ride off  into the distance. How about that 
job? You’re not going to give your aces to that job, that’s just the practice job. What about your 
body? The question is: What is going to be written on your gravestone?
ERHARD
You get the point. This is not your real life. You’re living your practice life. Nobody would 
be stupid enough to take their real life and do what you’ve done with it. Suppose you were 
married to your real wife–I mean like the real one. Man, you would give everything to her. 
Everything you’ve got. But the one you’re married to now is your “practice wife.” Here’s how 
you can tell. If she were the one, the woman of your dreams, you wouldn’t be like you are 
with her, and you know it. The same with your job. You don’t give everything you’ve got to 
this job. This is just a practice job. You keep your aces for when the real one comes along. 
That’s when you’ll spend your life on your life, when the real one comes along, but not on 
this life. 
If you use what you got to get where you are, it 
produces success and a certain set of problems.
You cannot solve those problems with that with 
which you succeeded, because those problems
are a product of that which you used to succeed.
“


=== END OF PAGE 247 ===

=== PAGE 248 ===

234
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD (walking across the room, speaking softly)
There’s no real one. This is it. It’s not going to get any better. It’s not going to work out. The 
right one is not going to come along. The right job isn’t going to come along. This is the only 
job there is, this is the only wife there is, this is the only life there is. This is not practice. You’re 
bullshitting yourself. This is the game, and you’re playing like you’re in practice. You want to get 
that this is the game. The right circumstances in which to be happy are not going to come along. 
They’re not. You’re waiting for it to turn out. Life is not going to work out. And someday it’s not 
going to be all better. Today is the way it is today and someday is the way someday is going to be. 
And in between it’s going to be the way it is in between. And the ultimate beyond that will be 
the way it is there.
(speaking forcefully, while walking among the group) 
This is not a practice life. Whatever you’ve got when you die, you’re going to die with it. And you 
are going to die with your aces. You thought “asshole” was insulting. It’s starting to make sense, 
isn’t it? It was a bit of a compliment, wasn’t it?
(laughter)
A participant named Jacob stood and took a microphone.
JACOB
Angel seems to be very concerned about the notion that nothing means anything. 
ERHARD
No no. Nobody said “nothing means anything.”
JACOB
Well, at any rate...
ERHARD
It means what it means.
JACOB
Well, at any rate...
ERHARD
A bowl is a bowl.
JACOB
Yeah.
ERHARD
It’s not nothing. It’s a bowl.
The right circumstances in which to be happy 
are not going to come along. They’re not. You’re 
waiting for it to turn out. Life is not going to 
work out. And someday it’s not going to be all 
better. Today is the way it is today and some-
day is the way someday is going to be. And in 
between it’s going to be the way it is in between. 
And the ultimate beyond that will be the way it 
is there.
“


=== END OF PAGE 248 ===

=== PAGE 249 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 235
JACOB
I was just thinking if you take the phrase “nothing means anything” in a positive way. The 
words are interchangeable. The word nothing means anything; anything is nothing. That 
might be the kind of hippy defi nition you don’t like.
ERHARD
True.
JACOB
I know, I know. I don’t like it either, but...
ERHARD
I’ll tell you what I do like, though, is I like that you’re engaged in the conversation. What I 
don’t like is being facile about it. Do you know what I mean by the word facile? Live easy with 
it.
JACOB
Yeah.
ERHARD
You’ve got to be ballsy with it. You’ve got to get down with this. This is not some airy fairy crap. 
I didn’t say you’ve got to talk bad like I do. You’ve got to get down in your own way, but you’ve 
got to get down. You’ve got to get out of that “whoooo” shit.
KIPP
And you’ve made it into that. Do you know that?
JACOB 
Yeah. What I wanted to say a couple of days ago about doing what you can or can’t do, I think 
it was Benjamin Franklin who said...
(forgetting)
ERHARD
I know what they said too, but I can never seem to remember it. We’ll read you that Einstein 
quote we butchered later.
(laughter)
JACOB
I remember now. He had a good defi nition of the word character. To have character is to follow 
through with the decision after the emotion of making that decision has passed. I thought 
that’s what Werner was saying about being facile.


=== END OF PAGE 249 ===

=== PAGE 250 ===

236
SPEAKING BEING
KIPP
What he’s saying is that the way you’re listening to what’s happening in the room is like a 
concept. You’re doing the same thing Angel’s doing, just a diff erent meaning. Hers is “As the 
Turd Whirls,” and yours is “Fireside Chat with” whatever your name is. 
JACOB
Yeah, but the point is, if you don’t change, then it’s not...
KIPP
And this is more of it. This is more Angel coming out of you. Same thing!
JACOB
Yeah.
KIPP
Same thing. Diff erent meaning, that’s all. And you’re attached to those quotes like she’s 
attached to the soap opera.
JACOB
Okay, okay, okay.
KIPP
That’s “shut up, shut up, shut up.”
JACOB
I didn’t mean that.
KIPP
Yes you did.
JACOB
I didn’t mean for it.
KIPP
Yeah, that’s the problem. That’s what you’re saying. You see, you don’t want to be with that 
it’s empty and meaningless. You’ve got a nice neat package, just like Angel’s got a dramatic 
package.
JACOB
And the problem with that is that I’m attracted to that meaning.
KIPP
Attracted to it? You’re addicted to it! That’s all you got.


=== END OF PAGE 250 ===

=== PAGE 251 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 237
JACOB
No, no, no, I’m attracted to... I like the idea...
KIPP
So what if you like the idea? Why do you like it?
JACOB
Because it’s light-hearted. Taking the drama out of it...
KIPP
It’s like morning TV instead of afternoon TV. Doesn’t matter. 
JACOB
Yeah, I know, what I’m saying is because I like your philosophy, I’m going to have to try to 
make it meaningful...
KIPP
I don’t have a philosophy. 
JACOB
Then what were you talking about? 
KIPP
What I was saying. You think this is a philosophy. No philosophy here. Or if it is, it’s not The 
Forum. See, this is fi reside chats with Jacob. This is your little place where you hang out. This 
is your meaning you’re holding onto with your fi ngernails and your toes and everything else. 
It’s all in a nice neat box, the same as Angel. And for everyone else here in the room, what you 
should get is that this is what yours sounds like too, just your version of it. 
ERHARD
This is not a philosophy. This is not a view of life. This is not one of the many views. This 
is not another religion. That’s not what this is. It doesn’t replace or negate anything. It’s 
more like dog shit than it is like philosophy—something to step in. If you treat it like 
philosophy, you’ll fuck it up. If you’re going to treat it like something, treat it like dog shit. 
Step in it.
KIPP
As you were saying, Jacob...
JACOB
I was just thinking that I should sit down because as long as I’m standing I’m going to want an 
answer to all this.
The Same
In suggesting that the experiences evoked in The Forum and in 
the est Training are at some level the same, we are venturing into 
important and precarious Heideggerian territory. Werner Erhard 
suggested the nature of this territory in a 1983 interview, when 
challenged to compare the est Training with other enlightenment 
systems, such as Zen:
I think that discussions about enlightenment 
are useless, and I think making enlightenment 
sacred is even more futile. My question is, what’s 
this conversation all about? . . . We’re not really 
talking about anything. I don’t know how else to 
respond to you. You can’t ask, “Is this enlighten-
ment like that enlightenment?” That’s counting
enlightenments. That’s nuts! (Network Review, 
1:4, September 1983, emphasis added)
“


=== END OF PAGE 251 ===

=== PAGE 252 ===

238
SPEAKING BEING
KIPP
Then when you sit down you’ll do whatever you do when you sit down. And that’s all there is.
JACOB 
What’s the motivation then? 
KIPP
Whatever it is. You are the kind of being that thinks there has to be a motivation. There is 
no motivation, because there’s no place to get to. People who are addicted to motivation are 
addicted to trying to get somewhere. Can you see that that’s the source of motivation? But there 
is no place to get to. You know why?
JACOB
Why?
KIPP
There’s no place to get to because it’s already turned out. This is the way it turned out. How do 
you like it?
JACOB
No.
KIPP
It doesn’t matter. You turned out this way, right?
JACOB
Yeah, but, it’s imperfect. I can live with it, but...
KIPP
What’s imperfect?
JACOB
The world’s imperfect.
KIPP
Where?
JACOB
Ethiopia.
KIPP
Ethiopia is Ethiopia.
One cannot compare enlightenment experiences, because one 
cannot compare nothing with nothing, since there is only one 
nothing. Or, as an alternative interpretation, there is no nothing; 
nothing is a nullity, its existence is self-nullified. There is nothing to 
be compared. And yet, I can say these sentences, so nothing can be 
talked about. 
In Heidegger’s words, “‘there is given’ [es gibt] the Nothing.” 
He adds: “but we cannot, at present, determine more closely who 
or what gives the Nothing” (BC 45). That question must remain 
open to call forth thinking. So Heidegger moves on to another 
possible interpretation of the situation: “We can also say that the 
Nothing presences [west], in order to indicate that the Nothing is 
not merely the absence and lack of beings” (BC 45).  
The Nothing does not first need beings and a 
being in order to presence, as if it would pres-
ence only if beings were eliminated in advance. 
The Nothing is not the result of such an elimina-
tion. There is given the Nothing in spite of the
fact that beings are. (BC 45)
“
We referred to this territory as precarious, not because the topic 
is subversive, but because the conversation can easily begin to 
sound silly. Sophomoric. Heidegger is not surprised that we may 
be thinking this:
Here we easily fall into the danger of playing
with words. People make use of the justifiable
indication of this danger in order to banish all
thought “about” the Nothing as fatal. But the 
danger is no less that, because we seem to be 
merely playing around with words, we take the
Nothing too lightly and fail to recognize that 
there is given the Nothing. (BC 45–46)
“


=== END OF PAGE 252 ===

=== PAGE 253 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 239
JACOB
I want to change it. I know this sounds sappy...
KIPP
Not sappy. Just disempowering. You’re the kind of guy that’s going to make no diff erence 
because you’re going to try to change Ethiopia. Where is the world imperfect?
JACOB
There’s two kinds of perfect. There’s what you strive for, which we are neglecting here, and 
then there is what already is. 
WES (standing on the platform)
Let’s deal with your life fi rst. You haven’t seen what you look like. 
JACOB
Yeah.
WES
You’re talking to Kipp like someone who hasn’t seen what a human being looks like who 
follows what you’re talking about. You’re proposing a way of being and you haven’t seen how 
absurd it is. When you see how absurd it is you’ll give it up in a minute: The absurdity of the 
story that uses people’s lives. 
JACOB
Yeah, I was going to say that there’s what happened, and then there’s the story. It makes life 
interesting.
WES
What makes life interesting? Certainly not your story. You know what you’re story looks like?
JACOB
Yeah, violins playing in the background.
WES
Yeah, good. 
JACOB
But it’s still interesting to me.
WES
No it isn’t. It stinks. There’s no possibility. This is what you look like. I’m going to demonstrate 
you.
Our experience with the work of Werner Erhard has led us to the 
recognition that a transformational leap must pass through the 
domain of meaninglessness, and that an experience of Being 
requires a confrontation with non-Being. We will therefore endure 
(or enjoy) any silliness we encounter, and recognize that we are 
mining one of the richest veins of Heidegger’s thought—perhaps 
his most essentially reflexive distinction, sometimes his most 
perplexing, but inevitably a ride we want to be along for.
A core rubric for this distinction is the Same; and since a distinction 
can only be hinted at, Heidegger approaches this one throughout his 
writing from various directions. In the 1941 lecture series published as 
Basic Concepts, it emerges in a section concerning Being’s uniqueness, 
and its diff erence in that respect from beings:
Beings can always be compared with beings 
and placed into equivalence with one another. 
However, [B]eing is never merely what is equiv-
alent in the manifold beings stone, plant, ani-
mal, man, God. For to be what is equivalent it 
would have to be multiple. Being, by contrast is 
everywhere the same, namely, itself. In order to
be equivalent, something other and additional 
is required. To be the same, only uniqueness is 
needed. (BC 44)
“
Heidegger’s languaging in such writing trips up our thinking. It 
forces us to stop and double back, to be certain that what we 
understood was what was said. It pulls the rug from under us. 
Heidegger’s next sentence gives a final yank to a rug already 
well-pulled: 
As the same and unique, [B]eing is, of course,
forever diff erent in and from itself. (BC 44)
“
Thinking and Being
In the 1954 collection of essays entitled Early Greek Thinking,
Heidegger develops the distinction “the Same” in his exploration 
of two fragments by Parmenides. A central question for 


=== END OF PAGE 253 ===

=== PAGE 254 ===

240
SPEAKING BEING
Wes held a pen about a foot in front of his mouth, trying to bite it while continuing to hold it out of 
reach, and chasing it around the stage while complaining about his failure to reach it.
JACOB
Yeah, I could have told you that, though...
WES (continuing to try to bite the carrot)
I’ll get there. Shit. I’ll get a Ph.D. Shit. I’ll get married. Shit...
At this moment a participant seated in the “no-video” section of the room called out angrily that 
the cameraman focused on Jacob was also including those seated in the “no-video” section. Kipp 
promised that it would be handled and it was.
JACOB (returning to the conversation)
I get that. I’m like a stupid donkey tied to a cart chasing a carrot, trying to get it. But I see that 
I’m just a little bit hungry and that’s leading me toward perfection.
WES
No, that’s bullshit.
JACOB
Okay, why? 
WES
Because it is.
JACOB
Okay, can I do a demonstration of you?
WES
No.
JACOB
Why not?
WES
Because I said so.
JACOB
Dick.
Heidegger—an important subordinate question to his overarching 
question of Being—concerns the relation between Being and 
thinking. What is the nature of that relation? How intimately do the 
two phenomena belong together? 
One of these Parmenidean fragments has traditionally been 
translated, “For thinking and Being are the Same.” Here Heidegger 
interrogates that translation:
Does this word give us an answer to the ques-
tion of how thinking belongs to Being, in that it 
says both are “the Same”? The word gives no 
answer. In the first place, because the deter-
mination “the Same” precludes any question 
about “belonging together,” which can only 
exist between things that are diff erent. In the 
second place, because the word “the Same” 
says nothing at all about the point of view 
from which, and for what reason, diff erence 
passes over into sameness. Thus to auto, the 
Same, remains the enigmatic key word for both 
fragments—if not for the whole of Parmenides’ 
thought. (EGT 88)
“
Heidegger leaves us in the dark here, because he wants us to 
place that enigmatic term in question. He wants us to recognize 
our tendency to gloss challenging ideas with easy and familiar 
interpretations:
Of course if we are of the opinion that the word
to auto, the Same, means “identical,” and if 
we accept “identity” completely as the most 
transparent presupposition for the thinkability
of whatever is thinkable, then by this opinion
we become progressively more deaf to the key 
word, assuming that we have ever heard its 
call. It is suff icient, however, to keep the word
in our hearing in its thought-provoking charac-
ter. In doing so we remain listeners. . . . (EGT 88)
“


=== END OF PAGE 254 ===

=== PAGE 255 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 241
WES
You’re doing whatever you’re doing, and you’re adding this story that it’s leading me toward 
perfection. But it’s leading you toward a hole in the ground, and they’re going to throw you in 
it, and they’re going to throw dirt in your face. Think about that. 
JACOB
Yeah, yeah. That’s what happened.
WES
No, that’s what will happen.
JACOB
Yeah, when I get there that will be what happened. I don’t mind adding a story to my life, just 
to make it interesting, or entertaining. I don’t mind tinting my life with fi ction. Just to make it 
interesting.
ERHARD
You were doing fi ne until you added the “just to make it interesting.”
JACOB
Or entertaining.
ERHARD
Or “just to make it entertaining.” The story “in order to be entertained.” That’s terrible.
JACOB
Yeah, yeah.
ERHARD
The purpose to the story is the story. 
JACOB
Yeah, yeah.
ERHARD
What’s more entertaining than a tree? Nothing. Standing in front of a tree: nothing can be 
more entertaining than standing in front of a tree. 
JACOB
So when you take what happened then there should be automatic meaning added to it without 
having to play violins...
ERHARD
There’s no meaning to it. The tree doesn’t mean anything. It’s just a tree. 
We have suggested that an essential relationship exists between the 
experience evoked in the est Training and that made available in The 
Forum; and we have said that neither experience is captured in the 
spoken words of the conversations, but that both are communicated 
in the unspoken context of those words. Heidegger likewise directs 
us to consider the character of the context. If modern human beings 
are to engage in a thoughtful dialogue with the writing of the pre-
Socratics—and Heidegger sees such a dialogue as critical for this 
moment in history—then we must begin to apprehend in our thinking 
“the unified totality of the manifold” (EGT 22). 
Dialogue with early Greek thinking will be fruit-
ful only when such listening occurs. It is proper 
to dialogue that its conversation speak of the
same thing; indeed that it speak out of partici-
pation in the Same. (EGT 22)
“
Over the vast chasm of time and language, can what we hear 
be the same as what the Greek thinkers are saying? To develop 
this question, Heidegger places a passage from the pre-Socratic 
thinker Parmenides alongside one from the thinking of a modern 
philosopher, Nietzsche, and makes this observation regarding the 
juxtaposition:
The ancient fragment of early Western thinking
and the late fragment of recent Western think-
ing bring the Same to language, but what they
say is not identical. However, where we can
speak of the Same in terms of things which are
not identical, the fundamental condition of a
thoughtful dialogue between recent and early
times is automatically fulfilled. . . . [G]ranting
the diff erences between these epochs, we are
together with the early thinkers in the realm of 
the Same. (EGT 23)
“


=== END OF PAGE 255 ===

=== PAGE 256 ===

242
SPEAKING BEING
JACOB
Rather than meaning, there’s a plot to it.
ERHARD
There’s no plot to it. You add the plot. And you’re not doing it to entertain yourself. You’re doing 
it because you’re doing it. You justify doing it in here when we get you to see that you’re doing it 
by saying I’m doing it in order to entertain myself. But you’re not doing it. And you’re not doing 
it to entertain yourself. 
JACOB
But what if it does entertain me?
ERHAD
Then it does. But you don’t do it in order to entertain yourself.
JACOB
Yeah. You don’t do anything in order to anything.
ERHARD
Exactly. You do what you do and you don’t do what you don’t do. And you got all the 
justifi cation that you add to that.
JACOB
I do what I like.
ERHARD
You don’t do what you like. 
JACOB
That would be an in-order-to.
ERHARD
Right. Nobody ever does what they like. They do what they do. Have you ever done anything 
you didn’t do?
JACOB
No.
ERHARD
Have you ever done anything you didn’t like to do?
JACOB
Yeah.
Thus we can say, in the sense that Heidegger is distinguishing 
here, that the est Training and The Forum are the Same but not 
identical. Further, we can likewise say that the Same relationship 
exists between the “single thought” of Heidegger’s thinking and 
the transformational experience evoked in The Forum.
Heidegger further teases out the distinction “the Same” in a 
discussion of the Logos, the site where beings, emerging into 
the world of meaning, are gathered and sheltered. Although in 
the West logos is traditionally translated as discourse or spoken 
language—and for Heidegger, of course, language is the realm of 
Being—the root term, legein, does not primarily indicate speaking, 
but means to lay down, to lay before. 
To say is legein. This sentence, if well thought,
now sloughs off  everything facile, trite, and vac-
uous. It names the inexhaustible mystery that 
the speaking of language comes to pass from the 
unconcealment of what is present. (EGT 64)
Saying and talking occur essentially as the letting-
lie-together-before of everything which, laid in 
unconcealment, comes to presence. (EGT 63)
“
A central question for Heidegger concerns the truth of a 
being—the Being of the being—at the point of its emergence 
into the world. How can we perceive the thing itself, physis in 
the moment of its first flowering into meaning, but before its 
deflowering by the distortions of opinion and perspective? At 
the heart of the matter, says Heidegger in this intensely reflexive 
passage, is the possibility of openness to letting, and to the Same:
before us as lying-before. It establishes this as
itself. It lays one and the Same in one. It lays one 
as the Same. Such legein lays one and the same, 
the omon. Such legein is omologein: One as the
Same, i.e., a letting-lie-before of what does lie 
before us, gathered in the self-sameness of its
lying-before. (EGT 66)
“


=== END OF PAGE 256 ===

=== PAGE 257 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 243
ERHARD
You do what you do, and coincidentally it sometimes matches the story you’ve got about what 
you like to do. And what makes you stupid is to say, “When I’m good I do what I like to do and 
when I’m bad I do what I don’t like to do.” No. When you’re bad you’re bad and when you’re 
good you’re good. And don’t fuck it up with all that philosophical horseshit. That’s what he 
means by fi reside chat. That’s your racket Jacob. I know you think that’s the way to be. I know 
you think that’s the right way to be.
JACOB
No, it’s a way to be.
ERHARD
No, it’s not even a way to be. That’s just the way you are. 
JACOB
And if I do it another way, it’ll be another way.
ERHARD
But you won’t do it another way. You’ll do it the way you do it. That conversation is 
nonsensical. It gets you into trouble. Things are the way they are, and they are always not the 
way they’re not. And what you do is say that you do it to make life interesting; and not because 
that’s the right thing to say, but because that’s what you do. 
JACOB
But the one thing that I can control is...
ERHARD
But here’s the thing. You’re not getting the point, Jacob. You’re too engaged in the 
conversation. Listen to what’s not being said. There’s something to get out of the conversation 
and I’m not going to say it and you’re not going to say it. It’s going to be unsaid. And that’s 
what there is to get here. Otherwise you’re paying 625 dollars to pass on your philosophy to a 
guy who couldn’t care less. You paid him to pass on your philosophy.
JACOB
I paid 625 dollars to hear your philosophy.
ERHARD
No, I don’t have any philosophy. All I have is dog shit.
JACOB
How about my philosophy through you?
ERHARD
That’s horseshit. I don’t like philosophies. That’s more nah nah nah nah nah. Philosophies.
Heidegger’s languaging here may occur as tortured or as 
poppycock, unless we keep in mind the enigmatic nature of 
hints, which always beckon us away from that toward which 
they simultaneously point us; and of reflexive languaging, which 
creates perplexities to liberate our thinking. Under the rubric of the 
Same, Heidegger is distinguishing a way of listening for the world, 
and he invites us to follow:
To think is surely a peculiar aff air. The word of 
thinkers has no authority. The word of thinkers
knows no authors, in the sense of writers. The
word of thinking is not picturesque; it is with-
out charm. The word of thinking rests in the
sobering quality of what it says. Just the same,
thinking changes the world. It changes it in the
ever darker depths of a riddle, depths which 
as they grow darker off er promise of a greater 
brightness. (EGT 78)
“
We read in this passage an iteration of The Forum’s rhetorical 
process, which takes participants down one level at a time to 
confront the empty depths of the Nothing, before lighting the 
opening that has thereby been unconcealed.


=== END OF PAGE 257 ===

=== PAGE 258 ===

244
SPEAKING BEING
JACOB
Okay.
ERHARD
You’re up there and this is The Forum. It’s not like I picked you out. Why am I staying in this 
conversation with you? The Forum is for you and I to engage in this until what you’re not 
saying and what I’m not saying is there for you to hear. There’s something to hear that neither 
of us is going to say. That’s the name of this game. It’s underneath all that wisdom you got. I’m 
not denigrating your wisdom. Your wisdom’s pretty good. I like it. And if we were out having a 
drink I would listen to it and discuss it. I would. I like that stuff  too. But that’s not The Forum. 
The Forum is to get what’s underneath that. And what there is to get here is that it’s empty and 
meaningless. Now you’re a pretty sharp guy and you got some of that. But now you’re going to 
turn that into a philosophy. Don’t do that. Just get it. It’s empty and meaningless, and it’s empty 
and meaningless that it’s empty and meaningless. And life is not going to turn out.
JACOB
It’s the part that it is empty and meaningless that gets me, because that has a little bit of 
meaning to it. 
ERHARD
No. It has no meaning to it. That’s why I said it is empty and meaningless that it is empty and... 
JACOB
I guess it was because I was thinking “because.”
ERHARD
Beautiful. Exactly. You got it. You can’t get “because” in there at all. Zero. If you add “because,” 
you’re above zero. At zero it’s just empty and meaningless and it’s empty and meaningless that 
it’s empty and meaningless. It’s not your life that’s empty and meaningless. It’s a rainstorm. Life 
is empty and meaningless and you showed up in that, and got wet in it. It’s not your particular 
little crappy life that’s empty and meaningless. It’s that life is empty and meaningless. That’s 
what we showed up in.
Erhard stood close to Jacob and spoke intimately.
ERHARD
Jacob, you want to listen up here. Some people I don’t identify with. I can get them because I’m 
trained to get them. I can identify with you. And you’re sharp enough to fuck yourself. I know 
you can do it because I did it. I got the answers very early, and I developed them really well, but 
I got them as answers.
JACOB
Yes, I’ve got this bucket of answers I carry around with me. 
The Forum is for you and I to engage in this
until what you’re not saying and what I’m not
saying is there for you to hear. There’s some-
thing to hear that neither of us is going to say.
That’s the name of this game.
“


=== END OF PAGE 258 ===

=== PAGE 259 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 245
ERHARD
You play the game right you’ll end up with a mountain of answers. Yes. I had a mountain of 
answers. I had a trailer behind the car. I had answers from the best places. 
JACOB
Yeah, but they weren’t the answers. It seems like there should only be one.
ERHARD
Yeah there is one. I already gave it to you. There is no answer. See, you want to build a pile of 
answers and fi nd out one day that it’s a pile of shit and not a pile of answers?
JACOB
It sounds like you have all these answers that you’ve rendered meaningless.
ERHARD
They were the answers. I stood on top of that pile of answers, fi nely honed, hard earned, and 
recognized that the answer was: there is no answer. 
JACOB
It sounds like what you’re saying is that you read a book one day, maybe Freud, and that’s what 
happened, but you kept it and made it mean something out of it.
ERHARD
Not something out of it, I made the answer out of it, and I had a mountain of answers. And 
look, I could do you real easy. “I could look at it this way and that way, and there’s no one real 
way to look at it—the way to look at it—there are many ways to look at it.” This week, this 
year, this era of your life: the answer. Not “the answer is that there isn’t any answer, there are 
many answers.” That’s an answer. You get that that’s an answer?
JACOB
Yeah.
ERHARD
Yeah, but if you’ve got an answer, then that isn’t the answer: The answer is there isn’t any 
answer. And if you turn that into an answer, that isn’t it either.
JACOB
That’s a vicious circle. 
ERHARD
That’s right. This whole thing is a vicious circle. And the only way to get to break the vicious 
circle is that there isn’t any answer, and that life isn’t going to turn out, it isn’t going to work 
out, and someday isn’t going to turn out so that you can play your aces.
Heidegger on Thinking the Same
Every thinker thinks one only thought. Here, 
too, thinking diff ers essentially from science. 
The researcher needs constantly new discov-
eries and inspirations, else science will bog 
down and fall into error. The thinker needs one 
thought only. And for the thinker the diff iculty 
is to hold fast to this one only thought as the 
one and only thing that he must think; to think 
this One as the Same; and to tell of this Same 
in a fitting manner. But we speak of the Same 
in the manner that befits it only if we always 
say the same about it, in such a way that we 
ourselves are claimed by the Self-same. The 
limitlessness of the Same is the sharpest limit set 
to thinking. (WCT 50, emphasis added)
“
It is a job of The Forum leader to see that the conversation of The 
Forum always speaks the Same. ■


=== END OF PAGE 259 ===

=== PAGE 260 ===

246
SPEAKING BEING
JACOB
When you say “it,” I get that you mean life, but something is going to work out.
ERHARD
Really?
JACOB
Yeah.
ERHARD
Are you the Pope?
JACOB
I anticipate that something’s going to happen.
ERHARD
Yeah and evil spirits are going to come down and invade people’s bodies and make them sick.
JACOB
And I’ll go home and not get enough sleep to come back here tomorrow. 
ERHARD
And you know what? You will if you do and you won’t if you don’t. And your anticipation is 
meaningless because it’s going to be just the way it is.
JACOB
Yeah, anticipation means that there’s going to be a stupid story attached to what happened. 
ERHARD
Sure. And you’re going to anticipate anyhow. See, it’s a perfect trap, Jacob. That’s the thing 
Californians don’t understand. The attempt to get out of the trap constricts the bars of the 
prison. The attempt to get beyond the “this-is-all-there-is” keeps you in the trap. Trying to get 
out of the prison keeps you in the prison. And not trying to get out of the prison keeps you in 
the prison. Everybody’s got a form of making it. Even not making it for some people is a form of 
making it. Either way is an attempt to get out of the trap and that keeps you in the trap. There is 
no outside the prison. Outside the prison is inside the prison.
JACOB
It’s the spot you are in.
ERHARD
Yes. You’re only going to be in the spot you’re in.
The attempt to get beyond the “this-is-all-
there-is” keeps you in the trap. Trying to get
out of the prison keeps you in the prison. And
not trying to get out of the prison keeps you in
the prison.
“


=== END OF PAGE 260 ===

=== PAGE 261 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 247
JACOB
So is that the perfect spot?
ERHARD
No. That’s adding meaning to it. That’s a Jacobism, that last one. That’s the best one you did 
because you can see it in that one. See, you’re trying to make it all right! That’s what it means to 
turn it into a philosophy. You’re doing a “fi reside talk.” It’s a trap. But it’s all right that it’s a trap.
JACOB
That’s what I’m saying.
ERHARD
But that’s what ruins it. It’s not all right. It’s not not all right either. It’s just like this.
JACOB
Okay.
ERHARD
You got it. Well done, thank you. 
(applause)
KIPP
Patsy, you win the prize, and a large bicep. Holding your hand up for forty minutes straight.
PATSY
Aerobics!
KIPP
Exactly.
PATSY
It’s taken me three days to get up and talk, and I love to talk...
KIPP
When should you have gotten up to talk?
PATSY
I said something the fi rst day...
KIPP
You said it took you three days to get up.


=== END OF PAGE 261 ===

=== PAGE 262 ===

248
SPEAKING BEING
PATSY
Now it’s perfect that I’m up talking.
ERHARD
Certainly, if you’d gotten up earlier it would have been bad, right?
PATSY
No it would have been perfect at the time.
ERHARD
Because whatever happens is perfect, right? 
PATSY
Absolutely.
ERHARD (speaking with dramatic forcefulness)
Wrong! Whatever happens is not perfect! That’s fucking California crap! Whatever happens is 
whatever happens! You fucking Californians: you’re disgusting! Goddamned platitudes. 
(calmly)
At any rate: you’re up.
PATSY
I really got what you said about the aces, I really got it, and as I listened to it and watched the 
demonstration, all of a sudden a confl ict appeared. And that is: how many times do you throw 
your aces out and you get stepped on, kicked, shit on, and you say okay, and then do it again, 
and again, and the result that you wanted doesn’t happen.
KIPP
What knocked you over is the last thing you said. “The result that you wanted doesn’t happen.” 
Because what always happens?
PATSY
What happens.
KIPP
So when you throw your aces out, you throw your aces out. And you don’t when you don’t.
PATSY
Right, but given that you are human...
KIPP
If you are...


=== END OF PAGE 262 ===

=== PAGE 263 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 249
PATSY
Sometimes, but when you keep throwing those aces out to the same person for fi fteen years, 
for instance...
KIPP
Okay, roll ’em. Bring out the props. Okay...
PATSY
Angel’s my roommate!
The room broke out into prolonged laughter as Kipp made a sweeping motion as if operating a 
giant projector.
KIPP
Okay! Roll ’em and weep!
PATSY
I keep doing it and there comes a point where I want to make a choice that I don’t want that 
anymore.
WES
It’s not a choice, by the way. If we ever get this across—which is not looking good at this 
point—we’ll get to choice.
Wes imitated various possible internal dialogues participants might be having at this point in the 
proceedings, including, “Well, what about that multiple orgasm I had that time? Was that empty 
and meaningless?”
WES
That’s what you sound like... an internal dialogue machine. The way to blow the circuits on 
that is actually getting for yourself that this is empty and meaningless, and this is it. 
PATSY
It sounds real simple. 
WES
Too simple for complicated minds. You want to see what the complication of your life is, and 
the story, and the drama. And this concern you have for giving away your crummy aces. Like 
you don’t get it. It’s the giving of yourself away in which life occurs. All the rest is a drama. 
It’s all made up. It’s absurd. You’re absurd. But that’s okay, because they’re still going to throw 
dirt in your face whether you’re absurd or not. Do you think in a hundred years people will be 
discussing your relationships?
PATSY
No.


=== END OF PAGE 263 ===

=== PAGE 264 ===

250
SPEAKING BEING
Erhard left the room at this point. Wes was on the platform, Kipp down among the group. 
WES
You sure about that? Because you and your roommate discuss it a lot, right?
PATSY
Only at work.
(laughter)
WES
I see, so it keeps you from working. I can understand it.
PATSY
While I’m here being human, I want it to be good for me. I want to like what I’m doing.
Wes produced a clipping from a South Korean newspaper.
WES (referring to the newspaper clipping)
This is your life. This is how your life could be with a little more signifi cance. Here’s the title: 
“Wife is late with the lunch, kills herself.”
He read aloud the account, which concerned a woman who had forgotten that daylight savings time 
was being instituted for the fi rst time. As a result, she had prepared her husband’s lunch late. She 
then killed herself. 
WES
You think she was dealing with some kind of meaning there? 
PATSY
No, not a meaning that I know or recognize, or acknowledge.
(laughter)
WES
That’s meaning. A person kills herself because she served lunch an hour late. That’s the 
possibility of a human being’s commitment to having things be signifi cant. You have an analogy 
to that in your life. Really. No kidding.
Erhard had re-entered the room.
ERHARD
Did you not get that your story, read by a person in a diff erent culture, would sound like that 
story sounded to you? 


=== END OF PAGE 264 ===

=== PAGE 265 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 251
PATSY
Yes. 
ERHARD
Serving lunch late to your husband is serving lunch late to your husband. That’s all it is. And 
that woman hung herself. Can you see that you hung yourself? Isn’t it silly to hang yourself 
because someone got a divorce? It’s a joke, and you guys don’t get the joke. Life is a joke. Are 
you getting that? 
PATSY (grimly)
Yes. Very clear.
ERHARD
Yes, you are getting that. And you’re having the appropriate response to it at the moment. And 
you’re not all the way through it yet. Good.
(applause) 
She sat. A participant named Beverly stood.
BEVERLY
I want to know, “now what?” I’m looking for a new possibility, a new language so I can relate 
to people, to work for both of... And now I’m hearing that I’ve been transformed, and...
ERHARD
And you don’t like it. You don’t like “transformed.”
BEVERLY
No, because they have to be transformed again. Go to a new level.
ERHARD
There are no levels. This is all there is. 
BEVERLY
As far as each individual is concerned there are levels.
ERHARD
Who told you that? Did you speak to the Pope personally? This is a product of your infi nite 
wisdom?
BEVERLY
People diff er from person to person.


=== END OF PAGE 265 ===

=== PAGE 266 ===

252
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
So what? Each rock is diff erent from each other. So what? There’s some mythology going on 
here with this levels stuff . Tell me about levels.
BEVERLY
I don’t know about levels. I’m just hearing that people are transformed.
ERHARD
Who?
BEVERLY
Friends and those that are here...
ERHARD
Do you know what it is to be transformed? 
BEVERLY
No.
ERHARD
What it is to be transformed is to know that life is empty and meaningless—and I don’t mean 
know like hear and understand, I mean know like “be.” When you are that life is empty and 
meaningless, and you’re not making anything out of that, and you’re not doing anything with 
it, and it’s not a justifi cation, and it’s not an explanation, and there’s no prescription, and 
it doesn’t give you a prescription, then you’re transformed. When you are that life is empty 
and meaningless, and when that doesn’t give you anything—in other words, when you are 
that life is empty and meaningless and that doesn’t give you a prescription for living, and it 
doesn’t explain everything, it’ll give you light. It’ll light up everything. In that moment I got 
it, when I got that everything was in order to make it, the universe lit up. I didn’t need to 
know anything. I didn’t need to know that there was a fl oor down there holding me up. It was 
just there. So what it is to be transformed is to be that life is empty and meaningless, and to be 
that it’s empty and meaningless that it’s empty and meaningless: To be that life is not going 
to work out. And you are not someday going to have a relationship into which you put your 
heart and soul.
BEVERLY
I want life to be easy. 
ERHARD
Life is not going to be easier. You’re not going to fi nd an answer. It’s going to be just like it is. 
And you can bank on that. Life’s been around for a long time. It’s always only been like it is. 
And tomorrow it’s going to be like it is tomorrow. But you’re not living there. You live for it to be 
easy, which means you haven’t lived yet.
When you are that life is empty and mean-
ingless, and you’re not making anything out
of that, and you’re not doing anything with
it, and it’s not a justification, and it’s not an
explanation, and there’s no prescription, and
it doesn’t give you a prescription, then you’re
transformed.
“


=== END OF PAGE 266 ===

=== PAGE 267 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 253
BEVERLY
I’m at one point today and I’ll be at another point tomorrow.
ERHARD
And another point the day after that. And after that you’ll be in another point. On and on until 
there are no more points and they’ll throw dirt in your face.
BEVERLY
I want to make it easier for me to get to points faster.
ERHARD
No. You won’t get there any faster.
BEVERLY
Then where am I going?
ERHARD
Nowhere. There’s nowhere to go. You already got there.
(loudly)
There’s no place to go! You already got there! You don’t like it now that you’re there? That is 
too fucking bad.
BEVERLY
I think there’s another way of looking at it.
(laughter)
ERHARD
Beverly, there are always other ways of looking at it and all of them are unenlightened.
BEVERLY
Why did I pay $625? 
ERHARD 
You paid $625 to be that life is empty and meaningless, and that it’s meaningless that life is 
empty and meaningless. You paid $625 to fi nd out that life isn’t going to be diff erent. Like it’s 
always been: it is like it is. You don’t live life like it is what it is. You live life like “it’s going to 
be diff erent.” And that makes you an asshole. It’s not a bad thing to be, just a thing to be, like 
a fart. All the stuff  we did... everything we’ve done up to now was to get to the point where we 
could have this discussion. I told you up front that we were going to keep moving back until we 
got to zero. Empty and meaningless is as zero as you can get. 


=== END OF PAGE 267 ===

=== PAGE 268 ===

254
SPEAKING BEING
BEVERLY
And so now we’re going to progress somewhere?
(laughter)
ERHARD
No no. See, if we progress somewhere then we’d have to get back to zero again.
BEVERLY
And so we’re going in a circle to get back to zero.
ERHARD
No, we’re going to be at zero.
BEVERLY
And then we’ll be happy.
ERHARD
I don’t know. But I am certain that you will if you are. You’ll never be happy waiting for it to 
turn out. You’re never going to be happy trying to get it to move faster. Listen carefully. You’re 
never going to be happy waiting for the right tool, or the right answer with which to be related. 
If you’re going to be related, you’re going to have to be related like this. Just like this. This is not 
a practice session for the real relationship. This is the real relationship. That’s what you want to 
get. This is it. It’s not going to work out because it has already worked out. This is what you got 
to be related in and this is all you’re ever going to have. You’re always only going to have what 
you got. You’re never gonna have what you don’t got and are waiting for. If you get that, that 
should give you a very powerful sense of freedom. And take a great big burden there and let you 
be with the relationship you already have. 
Erhard had been sitting on the platform edge, talking very directly to Beverly, who stood about seven 
rows back. He was very focused and deliberate throughout the exchange.
ERHARD
Is that a little clearer?
BEVERLY
Yes.
(applause)
RICHARD
Last night someone I was staying with in the room told me that I snored. I stayed up late last 
night, trying to make sure that... I told them I wouldn’t snore and I stayed up most of the night 
to make sure I wouldn’t snore. So it’s not quite a divorce and not quite a divorcee’s roommate. I 


=== END OF PAGE 268 ===

=== PAGE 269 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 255
got that because I wrote my letter yesterday before I went to bed. And I didn’t have to wake up 
to get there. If someone asked me what I would give up, if I snored, I could give up the idea if I 
could stop myself from snoring.
KIPP
You only snore if you snore.
RICHARD
Well, there’s more to the story. I only snore in hotels.
KIPP
Got it.
RICHARD
I learned to snore in hotels. I lived in them for a year and a half.
KIPP
Clear.
ERHARD
What there is to get out of Richard’s share is that life is made up of trying to be. It’s made up of 
trying not to be, and of trying to be. Is there any being in trying not to be or trying to be?
(Richard sits down and another participant stands) 
MOLLY (in tears)
I came to The Forum on a mission from God to save WE & A. It’s actually not a joke. I mean: it 
is a joke on me... What I found out is that my racket is being abandoned. And I found out that I 
play my racket with God. 
ERHARD
I don’t talk about God a lot, because I don’t have a license to talk about God. You didn’t pay me 
to talk about God, so if somebody brings it up, I do what I can to avoid it, and if I can’t avoid 
it, I say as little as I can. I don’t like talking to you about God because God’s a racket for you 
and that’s disgusting. You need to listen to what Molly is saying because she knows both sides 
of the coin...now. So we’re not going to have a lot of discussions about this. We’ll have this 
discussion with Molly for everybody else. Go on.
MOLLY
I told my husband that when I was meditating that God told me to take The Forum, and he 
said, “so how are you going to get in this time, ’cause they rejected you last time.” I said I 
would play it their way. On the form I wrote what was so, but not the real so. It was the “how 
to get in” so. 


=== END OF PAGE 269 ===

=== PAGE 270 ===

256
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
And the other “so” was in order to something else.
MOLLY
Well the whole thing was an in-order-to.
ERHARD
Yeah, good. Do you have any idea how sacrilegious that is? God in-order-to.
MOLLY
Every time someone called me from The Forum I ripped them off , because I was this holy 
person. I wasn’t there for them, because I was on a religious path. I faked it. When I got to The 
Forum, I looked around to check out how tough a job it would be for God. And what I found 
out was, that when I was four years old I could remember back, and I did this through the 
process of completing with my parents.
(addressing Erhard)
I saw that I could trust you. And you said that the bonus points came with completing with 
your parents. I saw that I’d never done that. I tried everything. I threw everything out. I saw that 
I had paid $625... when you said that I had paid for it, and that if I was going to give it back for 
free that I was a sucker... Whatever I heard that got me here was for me. I saw that I came to 
The Forum to get The Forum. And you have to save your own soul.
(laughter and applause) 
The room became very still as Molly spoke. Erhard sat on the platform in front of her, with Kipp and 
Wes seated nearby.
MOLLY (continuing to cry) 
I called my parents. I didn’t know how to do it. I was just standing there. They were both social 
workers, retired. I didn’t know how to say this. And what I felt was that all they’d ever done for 
me is love me. That was it. No matter what, it was love. It was like Eden. Somehow I was back 
in Eden. Everything was everything. They asked what was wrong. I said there was nothing to 
worry about. I told them I loved them and knew they loved me. “I’ve been hurt by all this stuff  
that happened, but I get that everything you’ve done was done out of love.” And they started 
telling me their stories, and doing their social worker stuff . What I got is that I didn’t know 
much about them.
ERHARD
People love all that process stuff . That’s why they’re off ended that The Forum is four days and 
one night. It’s not long enough. There’s not enough agony to it. When you can be with the story, 
you don’t get stuck with it. And if you can’t be with the story, they’re going to keep telling it 
over and over and over and over because you can’t be with it.


=== END OF PAGE 270 ===

=== PAGE 271 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 257
MOLLY
And then we got to the deeper part of the story. My father told me how much I didn’t 
appreciate what he gave me, and my mother said that I abandoned them when I went to 
college...
ERHARD
Hold on, I want everyone to get this.
(loudly)
They’ve got a big fucking story too! They got their story. Can you imagine the story my 
mother’s got? My mother doesn’t have any story. She could have a story. So. You were noticing 
that they have a story.
MOLLY
I’ve been terrifi ed all my life of anger. And I would do anything I can to avoid anger. I do that 
with my husband. Standing on this ledge on the phone with them. The anger would pull me 
down to the valley. I would become comatose.
ERHARD
Right, you became comatose once to survive being with your parents.
MOLLY
I was comatose.
ERHARD
When you are that it’s empty and meaningless and it’s empty and meaningless that it’s empty 
and meaningless, and you can be with another’s story no matter what it is, you’re fearless. 
Without fear you don’t have need for courage.
MOLLY
My father’s anger didn’t frighten me for a change. I loved him. 
ERHARD
It’s not that you like or endorse his being angry. He’s angry, that’s all. And when you can be 
with his anger it disappears. When you got to try to do something to get him from being angry, 
or get him to stop being angry, or some other ploy, the anger persists no matter how good the 
ploy is. I know this because I talk to your kids. They forgive but they don’t forget, until you can 
be with whatever it is that they’re remembering. 
MOLLY
I didn’t have to prove anything.
ERHARD
Because it’s horseshit. What is this more or less love, to start with? “You either love me or you don’t”. 


=== END OF PAGE 271 ===

=== PAGE 272 ===

258
SPEAKING BEING
MOLLY
My mother shifted. She talked about how she’d made a lot of mistakes. And how her parents 
were diff erent. They weren’t taught how to be with their kids.
ERHARD
You made mistakes raising your children means you made mistakes raising your children, it 
doesn’t mean “bad mother,” even though that’s what you got it to mean.
MOLLY
And then she said: “How can we get from here to there?” 
ERHARD
Nobody wants to be there. They want to get there. But you can’t get there. You can only be there. 
That’s the joke. Nothing is going to make you happy. Nothing. Nothing is going to make you 
happy. That happens to be literally true, by the way, but never mind that. You’re going to spend 
the rest of your life trying to get what is going to make you happy, except that nothing’s going 
to get you happy. You’ve gotta be happy, you can’t get happy. Getting is anathema to happiness. 
The pursuit of happiness is the single most eff ective barrier to happiness. Nothing is more 
certain to deprive you of happiness than the pursuit of happiness. This is another form of that 
answer that there is no answer.
MOLLY
I said to my parents: “Didn’t something shift? We’re here now.” And they laughed. And it was 
tender. 
ERHARD
That’s really living—that laugh. Is there anything more to complete about this?
MOLLY
After the phone call to my parents, talking to my husband, I remembered an incident when 
I was four years old. I was jumping on the couch and I hit the window and cracked open my 
forehead. 18 stitches. I was given a washcloth and there was all this blood. We went to the 
hospital. In the operating room, all I could see was a huge light, and this disembodied doctor’s 
voice told my mother to leave. She left. She went away and left me there. My whole life has been 
about that. I’ve been stuck with that abandonment all my life. 
ERHARD
Yeah, and stuck with that bright light.
(laughter)
You can’t say anything more important than “that’s what my life has been about ever since.” 
That gets you to the source of your whole life. That gets you to zero. All the way back, at 
nothing.
Nothing is going to make you happy. Nothing.
Nothing is going to make you happy. That hap-
pens to be literally true, by the way, but never 
mind that.
“


=== END OF PAGE 272 ===

=== PAGE 273 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 259
MOLLY
What I got about my relationship with God? Well, my racket is that everyone abandoned me, 
including God. You have to buy love. And I was told you had to serve God to make God happy 
so he’d love you.
ERHARD (to the group)
Somehow, way back in history when all this God stuff  got started, God got turned into a story. I 
invite you to consider the possibility that the story somehow served the transmission process in 
those primitive times. This notion rings very hollow for me. Nevertheless, for people like you 
and me to be living those stories is disgusting and sacrilegious. To reduce an infi nite possibility 
into some crap story... That’s the end of my sermon.
MOLLY
I’ve spent a lot of years serving.
ERHARD
The only time serving is nurturing is when you’re serving to serve, not serving in-order-to. 
MOLLY
What I saw was that everybody was getting served except me, and I was getting exhausted. 
ERHARD
I don’t know that being stuck with God is a good thing. Free to might be a more appropriate 
relationship to God than have to. 
(to Molly)
But that’s your business. My business is dog shit. 
MOLLY
Apparently mine is too.
(laughter)
So when I saw that I had taken on this job to make God happy...
ERHARD (laughing)
Isn’t that ridiculous? This is a very good discussion. Go ahead.
MOLLY
And when I saw how ridiculous it was and how tired I was getting...
ERHARD
I got tired making God happy. It’s a new book. Look, you understand that Molly’s probably 
produced more freedom in people’s relationship with God in the last fi fteen minutes than she 
has in her whole life? She’s giving some room to be by sharing. She did it by sharing herself, 
not her fucking platitudes, not her beliefs. 
God
Here, Erhard is assuring that the “trap” that The Forum sets for 
participants—the trap of the current paradigm, in which Forum 
participants must find themselves hopelessly ensnared before 
they can access the liberation of transformation—is experienced 
as inescapable. Even God, for many still the most sacred of values, 
must finally fall victim to the demands of standing-reserve. As 
perceived through the metaphysical-technological lens of Western 
thought, God is inevitably burdened with the entailments of 
that paradigm. First, “He” becomes an unattainable ideality (the 
Creator who, in Heidegger’s view, is an extension of the Platonic 
notion of ideal form); and, at the same time, “He” is placed in 
standing-reserve, along with everything else in the technological 
clearing, and thus can be loved and worshiped only in-order-to—
that is, for salvation, forgiveness, eternal reward, and so forth. ■


=== END OF PAGE 273 ===

=== PAGE 274 ===

260
SPEAKING BEING
MOLLY
I saw that I wanted to end hunger to make God happy. And I saw that God was suffi  cient. I 
mean, God was just doing fi ne. 
(laughter and applause)
And it was a tremendous relief. I didn’t have to make God happy. I could do what I did just for 
the joy of it.
ERHARD
Good.
WES
Got it. Congratulations. 
Molly sat down.
WES
Here’s what I got from Molly: God’s happy. What’s your problem?
(laughter)
We’re going to dinner. That doesn’t change empty and meaningless. Let me point out the places 
people are at at this point in The Forum. For some the possibility is very clear. Some don’t 
know exactly what is happening. Some are very sure they’re not in tune with what’s happening. 
Recognize places you are in.
ERHARD
He means possibility like an opening, like freedom, not like an answer... You want to get that 
real clear in here, because I know you’ve been hearing possibility like an answer. We do not 
mean possibility as an answer, but a clearing in which life can happen. You can’t dance with 
answers. You dance with freedom. You can’t paint knowing how to paint, knowing the answers. 
You’ve got to have an openness, room. 
WES
So you’re in diff erent places with regard to the conversation. I invite you to go to dinner in a 
group.
ERHARD (regarding the approaching dinner break)
You notice you’re a little less frenzied about dinner? Like dinner might be just dinner, rather 
than a chance to get away. 
WES
At dinner, have a conversation about where you are in The Forum. Not your opinions, ideas, 
and notions: something about where you are and what you see in your life. Continue to stand 
in this conversation. You don’t need to go anywhere. Let it unfold for you. With regard to your 


=== END OF PAGE 274 ===

=== PAGE 275 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three 261
experience at the moment, some people at this point are high. Some people are angry. Some 
people are sad. Some people are “What’s the big deal?” 
Wes had those in each category raise their hands. On the video each time Wes asked for hands, very 
few went up until the last one: “What’s the big deal?”
WES
It doesn’t mean anything. You can almost be assured that by the time dinner is over you’ll be in 
a diff erent experience anyway. It doesn’t mean anything. 
ERHARD
Who in here knew that it was empty and meaningless? For a long time knew it?
(several participants raise their hands)
You have it like an answer, which is diff erent from how we are saying it here. It’s not a solution 
to a problem, so you smart-asses didn’t get it.
WES
Let yourself be where you are. The other assignment: see if you have any questions about the 
seminar program.
ERHARD
Up till now we’ve talked about dog shit. Now we’re going to talk about the truth. The truth 
about the truth is that it doesn’t mean anything. It’s just the truth. People do occasionally 
stumble into the truth. Sometimes they fall over the truth. But they invariably suck the power 
out of it, the truth-value out of it and turn it into an empty shell. And they do that by trying to 
make the truth useful. The truth is useless. I mean that the truth does not justify anything. If 
you stumble across the truth, or had a fl ash of insight, and you use it to explain something, if it 
was true, it’s now not true, because you’ve taken the truth out of the context in which it exists, 
which context is useless, and put it into a context in which it cannot exist as the truth, which is 
“use.” The truth is useless. It gives no prescriptions. None. It’s never the basis for a rule, never 
the basis for a prescription. The truth is useless. So anything you’re doing based on the truth is 
based on bullshit. You don’t use the truth; the truth uses you. If you want to have a relationship 
with the truth, be a place for the truth to go to work. Don’t try to use it, because when you try 
to use it in any way, it loses its truth-value. If you want some evidence for that, look around the 
world, and the places where you’ll fi nd the greatest destruction, the most evil—those things 
were done in the name of the truth. Don’t fuck with the truth. Let it be. Let it use you. Let it be 
and let it use you. Don’t try to use it. Because if you got lucky and you stumbled over the truth 
and then tried to use it, you sucked all the truth-value that it had; all the power it had as the 
truth is gone.*
If you stumble across the truth, or had a flash 
of insight, and you use it to explain something, 
if it was true, it’s now not true, because you’ve 
taken the truth out of the context in which it 
exists, which context is useless, and put it into 
a context in which it cannot exist as the truth, 
which is “use.”
“
* 
NOTE: Please see the sidebar entitled “The Three Levels of Truth” in Session Two of 
Day Four.


=== END OF PAGE 275 ===

=== PAGE 276 ===

262
SPEAKING BEING
WES
Later you will have an opportunity to ask about the seminar, or about the visitor evening 
tomorrow.
KIPP
How many of you have invited people to come tomorrow night at 9 pm? Use the dinner break 
to invite those people.
WES
There are plenty of people there that you could complete with, that you could get off  it with. 
Bonus category. Use the dinner break for that.
The Forum broke for dinner at 8:00 pm.


=== END OF PAGE 276 ===

=== PAGE 277 ===



=== END OF PAGE 277 ===

=== PAGE 278 ===

264
SPEAKING BEING
The Forgetting of Being, Part Five of Eight: Physis
To gain insight into the elusive nature of transformation, we are tracing the history 
of Being, as unearthed by Heidegger in his reading of the Pre-Socratic Greek 
philosophers. When Heidegger speaks of the Pre-Socratics, he oft en says simply “the 
Greeks”; however, as we will show, the level of insight achieved by these thinkers 
was not likely shared by the hoi polloi, the Greek population as a whole. 
 One of the tasks required by Heidegger’s project was to distinguish the original 
meanings of words which, for the Greeks, said Being. Discerning these meanings
was an extraordinary challenge. According to Heidegger, the great thinking of these
philosophers was non-conceptual thinking, and therefore radically diff erent from 
our current practice of reasoning, that is, comparing and contrasting propositions
that each state some relationship between a subject and its predicate. Subjects and
predicates are always and already generalized abstractions drawn from the particu-
larities of lived experience.
“
Concept and system alike are alien to Greek thinking. [...] The 
interpretation of Greek thinking that is guided by modern 
conceptual thinking not only remains inappropriate for Greek 
thinking; it also keeps us from hearing the appeal of the prob-
lematic of Greek thinking, and thus from being held to a con-
stantly more urgent summons to go on questioning. (WCT 213)
T
Keep in mind that when we talk about a new way of thinking, we are introducing a 
topic that cannot be brought to mind in our current way of thinking. So whatever 
you thought when you read that phrase isn’t it. 
Of the words used by the Pre-Socratics, none is more challenging than physis
(pronounced foo’-sis). What was said in this word, for the Greeks, was what Heideg-
ger calls the power that emerges. The original force of the word has been lost to us;
and it is the judgment of the scholar Charles E. Scott that if we can think physis as
the Greeks did, we will “find ourselves in an original dimension of our history,” one 
that has been lost almost since its inception (A Companion to Heidegger’s Introduc-
(
tion to Metaphysics 26).
But to translate the Greek terms successfully, Heidegger insists, we must first 
translate ourselves to the source of what comes to language in their saying. Since in
each pre-Socratic fragment the background from which it speaks is spoken as well, 
we must “seek the opportunity which will let us cross over to that source first of all
SESSION THREE INTERVAL
outside the fragment itself; it must be an opportunity which will let us experience 
f
what ta onta [beings], thought in Greek, says” (EGT 28, emphasis added).
T
This book proposes that the transformational experience made available in The
Forum provides that opportunity. We show in this book that The Forum experience is 
consistent in significant ways with the experience in language that Heidegger aimed
to evoke in his thinking. Further, since Heidegger is analogizing his understanding of 
Being with the experience of the Pre-Socratics, we invoke the principle of transitive 
equality and propose that The Forum, through its intentional dialogic transactions,
provides the opportunity called for in the passage above—it allows us to experience,
outside the Greek fragments themselves, the meaning of physis and ta onta.
Blossoming Emergence
Heidegger summarizes the complexity of physis here:
“
Now what does the word physis say? It says what emerges from
s
itself (for example, the emergence, the blossoming, of a rose), 
the unfolding that opens itself up, the coming-into-appearance 
in such unfolding, and holding itself and persisting in appear-
ance—in short, the emerging-abiding sway. . . . Physis is the
event of standing forth, 
h arising from the concealed and thus en-
abling the concealed to take its stand for the first time. (IM 15-16)
M
This short but dense passage suggests the dynamic of physis—emerging, unfolding, 
standing forth—as well as its complications. The word at once designates a process 
(blossoming), the entity that emerges in that process (the rose), and finally the 
phenomenon that comprises both the emergence and the rose itself, which is 
named here the emerging-abiding sway. Note further that as the rose (the being) 
emerges into unconcealment (the world), it brings with it the concealed from which it 
has emerged—the sway, the Being of the emergent being—and thereby brings what 
has been concealed to stand “for the first time” in the world of meaning.
The word sway is a translation of Heidegger’s German word Walten. This is sway
in the sense of holding sway, by exercising rule or dominance over some realm. 
But the term inevitably sounds overtones of persistent, back-and-forth vacillation, 
a quality appropriate to any discussion of Being. In his writing about the Greeks,
Heidegger uses both physis and sway as designations for the realm of Being, and
sometimes he seems to be using them interchangeably. More oft en, however, the 
terms serve to distinguish Being in two diff erent contexts, or stages. Of course, Being
cannot have a context, or anything at all like stages; but to talk about a topic that 
cannot be talked about, one must tell some lies. 


=== END OF PAGE 278 ===

=== PAGE 279 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three Interval 265
It may be helpful to consider the situation this way:
For the Pre-Socratic Greek thinkers, to whom a new level of world-awareness was
becoming accessible, pre-phenomena presented themselves in a state of “originary 
unity”—an “overwhelming coming-to-presence that has not yet been surmounted 
in thinking” (IM 67), an upheaval of entities and forces not yet held in language, their 
M
boundaries uncertain, their natures and relationships not yet fully distinguished.
To use a phrase that is central in the work of both Erhard and Heidegger (a term
further discussed at the Session Two Interval), we might say that these pre-phenomena
lived as possibilities for Being. As undistinguished, however, they swam without
limits in the realm of possibility. The sway designates that realm, a realm of Being
which is not yet in-the-world but is on the verge. These pre-phenomena may also be
usefully understood as possible meanings, or not-yet-meanings, and the sway may
therefore be seen as a realm of meaninglessness (an experience of this realm—which 
Heidegger refers to as the Nothing—will be seen to be a critical aspect of The Forum
transformation). The not-yet-meanings, presumably, might include both physical 
and non-physical pre- phenomena that had not yet pressed forward to be named 
and distinguished as possibilities—such as microbes, sexual abuse, gravity, ethnici-
ty, digital communication, homophobia, and egotism.
Heidegger has distinguished a mode of speaking he calls Saying, which has 
the force of bringing forth, rather than merely re-presenting. “The essential being
of language,” he says, “is Saying as Showing” (OWL 123). This is languaging that 
generates. In the speaking of the Greeks, which Heidegger calls originative Saying,
a world was brought forth.
Physis, then, is: Being brought forth by originative Saying to stand in the world; 
as well as the beings brought forth and set into limits by the naming; as well as the
process by which beings and Being emerge. Physis is the “event of standing forth,
arising from the concealed and thus enabling the concealed to take its stand for the
first time” (IM 16).
All of this, as we have said, is essentially talk about something that cannot be
talked about, and here Heidegger scholar Susan Schoenbohm suggests the chal-
lenge we face in attempting to analyze this phenomenon:
“
How, if at all, is it possible to render in words that which “is” 
previous to any being, word, or name? How to articulate the 
very coming-into-being of determination for the first time? [. . .] 
In its most originary meaning, physis means the emerging, for 
the first time, of something out of no determination at all . . . in
other words, the process of something’s coming-to-be-something 
from nothing. (A Companion to Heidegger’s Introduction to
Metaphysics. 148)
For the Pre-Socratics, not-yet-beings were becoming manifest as possibilities. The 
task for humans was to bring them forth, from a background of meaninglessness, to 
stand as beings in a world of meaning. 
Emerging into the world as a possibility, a being enters a lighting “from which
whatever lingers awhile in presence can be appropriately collected and brought
forward by mortal legein,” by human naming (EGT 70). Naming
T
for the Pre-Socratics 
was not merely providing a label; it was distinguishing a possibility of meaning, and
therefore of Being. Here, in a passage from the second day of The Forum, Erhard 
describes the process:
“
Distinction is an operation in language. In the normal course
of events you and I think of language as something we use to 
report on something. . . . But now we’re distinguishing a new
kind of operation in language. It’s an operation in language
called generating. It’s as though I said “chair” and a chair fell
out of my mouth. . . . What distinguishing is, is to take some-
thing like an undiff erentiated mass and to bring forth from 
that mass a realm of possibility.y  Distinction gives existence.
It makes existence possible.
From the undiff erentiated mass of the sway, the Pre-Socratics were distinguishing 
the possibilities of a world.
Heidegger describes the events of this time as a process of strife, “not war 
in the human sense” but “strife that holds sway” (IM 67, emphasis added). The
Greeks were engaged in a struggle to bring physis—the turbulent sway, vacillating
in its persistent emergence and withdrawal—to stand in the world, by naming and
diff erentiating its elements as beings:
“
As Heraclitus thinks it, struggle first and foremost allows what 
essentially unfolds to step apart from each other in opposition, 
first allows position and status and rank to establish themselves 
in coming to presence. In such a stepping apart, cleft s, intervals, 
distances and joints open themselves up. In con-frontation, 
world comes to be. [. . .] This breaking forth, breaking up, cap-
turing and subjugating is in itself the first opening of beings as
sea, as earth,
s
as animal. (
s
IM 67, 174)
M


=== END OF PAGE 279 ===

=== PAGE 280 ===

266
SPEAKING BEING
In Heidegger’s imagining of this process as he finds it in the fragments of the Pre-
Socratics, we find a saga of violent images and primal struggle, at “the dawn of 
early times in the land of evening” (EGT 18). He is not aiming to provide a record 
of events, since events of the time are necessarily shrouded in darkness. His tale, 
he says, must therefore be less natural science than mythology (IM 173). He is 
presenting an account of the forces that must have been at play as human beings, 
and their world, emerged into a crucial evolutionary phase, and the thinkers of the 
time struggled to engage that emergence. In Heidegger’s account, the engagement 
is violent. 
But where in the world are these violent events occurring? This is not, aft er all,
a saga of nations in battle, but a story of thinkers thinking; and certainly it was on 
one level an intellectual event—a struggle of minds to engage and comprehend the
new, an “internal” process of perception and deliberation. But that process was at 
the same time bringing forth a world into the world for the first time. This world was 
not “out there,” waiting to be labeled; world arose (as it continues to arise) in its
apprehension by human Being-in-the-world. These primordial events, then, were
occurring at the wavering interface between looking and thinking and naming.
Further, in the process of naming, and thereby creating an order of rank and
place in a world of meaning, Heidegger says that the Greeks were leaving the realm
of mythology and entering history. They were the beings into whose evolutionary 
path had emerged the gift  of language. Now they were recognizing the inescap-
able obligation of the gift : humans must unconceal beings and name them as the 
beings they are, opening them to existence and providing that existence with limits. 
This was the task of the Pre-Socratic thinkers, as well as the poets, statesmen, and
artisans through whose work Greek culture developed: “Against the overwhelming
sway, they throw the counterweight of their work and capture in this work the world 
that is thereby opened up” (IM 68).
“
The temple, in its standing there, first gives to things their 
look and to men their outlook on themselves. . . . It is the
same with the sculpture of the god, votive off ering of the
victor in the athletic games. It is not a portrait whose purpose 
is to make it easier to realize how the god looks; rather, it is a 
work that lets the god himself be present and thus is the god
himself. (“OWA” in PLT 43)
T
Indeed, Heidegger writes, the “nature of art, on which both the art work and the 
artist depend, is the setting-itself-into-work of truth” (“OWA” in PLT 72). And in 
responding to the demand of truth setting-itself-into-work, humanity was for 
the first time “coming to itself”: “The selfhood of humanity means this: it has to 
transform the Being that opens itself up to it into history, and thus bring itself to a 
stand” (IM 160). And as the Greeks opened themselves into history, says Heidegger, 
the question about their own Being underwent a change from “What is humanity?” 
into the form “Who is humanity?” (IM 160).
Like many of the questions raised in Heidegger’s thinking, this one leaves us
thinking a precarious balance between human agency and evolutionary forces. At
this distance we cannot conceptualize the situation; Heidegger hints at its nature:
“
the violence-doing of poetic saying, of thoughtful projection,
of constructive building, of state-creating action, is not an 
application of faculties that the human being has, but is a dis-
ciplining and disposing of the violent forces by virtue of which 
beings disclose themselves as such, insofar as the human
being enters into them. This disclosedness of beings is the 
violence that humanity has to conquer in order to be itself first
of all, that is, to be historical in doing violence in the midst of 
beings. (IM 175)
M
But Heidegger challenges 
“
the opinion human beings cherish of themselves as those who 
have invented and who could have invented language and 
understanding, building and poetry. How is humanity ever 
supposed to have invented that . . . due to which humanity 
itself can be as humanity in the first place? (IM 174)
M
The struggle meant here is originary struggle, for it allows 
those that struggle to originate as such in the first place. . . .  
(IM 68)
M
This situation creates an interesting chicken-or-egg challenge for thinking: How 
did human beings create a world in language, when human beings themselves first 
came to be human beings through language? The scholar Charles Guignon has pro-
vided this useful observation of the quandary:


=== END OF PAGE 280 ===

=== PAGE 281 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Three Interval 
267
“
[B]ecause the meaning of a word is determined by its web of 
relations to other words as embedded in a set of linguistic 
practices, and because humans are, as the Greeks saw, the 
“language animal” (zoon logon echon),
n there is no way to
suppose that humans first existed and then later invented 
first one word, then another, and so on. To see how language 
emerged, then, we need to make use of something like Witt-
genstein’s metaphor, “Light dawns gradually over the whole.” 
This image of a dawning light seems to be what is implied by 
Heidegger’s descriptions of the originary struggle that is prior 
to the appearance of humans and their explicit acts of naming. 
(A Companion to Heidegger’s Introduction to Metaphysics.
(
41)
Heidegger might put it this way: just as the modern era is the technological age, 
in which human being is enframed in the service of technological devices, the age 
of the Pre-Socratics was the age of the dawning light, when for a brief historical 
moment a full experience of Being was made available to human Being-in-the-
world.
The struggle for the Greeks, then, was to seize this moment, individuating
beings into their meaningful places in the world while at the same time retaining
their essential relation to the sway, and thus their fundamental orientation to Being.
For Heidegger, the greatness of the Pre-Socratics consisted in their recognition of 
this challenge, and its articulation in their thinking. At the same time, the promise of 
this achievement for Western thinking has been lost. As we proceed in this series of 
intervals on the forgetting of Being, we will consider further the nature of this loss.


=== END OF PAGE 281 ===

=== PAGE 282 ===

268
SPEAKING BEING
The Forum resumed at 10 pm, following the dinner break. The four TV monitors located at 
various points in the room have been turned on, so that the participants now have the option of 
watching the action on the monitors rather than directly. Erhard and Kipp began by interacting 
with participants’ sharing. 
KIPP
Who would like to share what’s happening?
ANDY
I had a terrifi c time at dinner. And anything beyond “I’m here and I speak” is a joke. Well yeah 
because, nothing. It’s great.
KIPP
When it is.
ANDY
Yeah.
KIPP
When it’s great it’s great, when it’s not it’s not. Thank you very much.
DON
I basically got tired of listening to people’s shit. A lot of the observation I made was people fell 
back into story telling. And I stopped listening. I didn’t enjoy it.
KIPP
Okay.
DON
I didn’t enjoy that at all.
KIPP
So what?
DON
Well, yeah, right. I just like the meat and potatoes. That good stuff .
KIPP
But so what? You’ve got it that it should be some way.
DON
Right.
FORUM DAY THREE: 
SESSION FOUR


=== END OF PAGE 282 ===

=== PAGE 283 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Four 
269
KIPP
As long as you’ve got some way you think it should be, that means it means something. And as 
long as it means something, that meaning has you.
DON
Exactly.
KIPP
Thank you.
(Applause)
SANFORD
I would like to share where I’m at right now and I’m just being.
KIPP
Great! Just being.
SANFORD
Yeah.
KIPP
And the only time you’re being is when?
SANFORD
Right now.
KIPP
When you’re being. And the only time I’m going to catch you not being is when? When you’re 
not being.
SANFORD
Yeah.
KIPP
Thank you very much. Fred?
FRED
I fi nally got down to my big racket of rackets and that’s being sad.
ERHARD
Listen up here. You may not be sad; you may be something else. What you always are or often 
are, that you don’t want to be? That’s a racket.


=== END OF PAGE 283 ===

=== PAGE 284 ===

270
SPEAKING BEING
FRED
And at dinner I got to what the cost is, because when I see all the happiness around here, I 
just want to push it all down. And what I discovered about how I dominate is I don’t want you 
to be happier than I am. So I come in with sad, and I really get sad and I get heavy with the 
sadness. But what I also discovered was this incredible disempowerment just all the way down. 
If I make a commitment and something happens like I don’t want to fulfi ll that, then I go into 
sadness, and then I don’t want to do anything, like the whole bottom falls out. So any joy in my 
relationship with my wife? Well I don’t want her to be quite that much happier than I am. I take 
away all that joy...
ERHARD
Because if you don’t have sadness, and sadness is the way you dominate and avoid domination... 
If you don’t have sadness you lose your weapon. You can’t be happy except tentatively. Just for a 
little while maybe. Very good. Continue.
FRED
So also what I’ve looked at: I’ve been talking about having a television show for two years. 
To have teenagers and parents interact in a powerful way to get over all this stuff  about clean 
rooms. And whenever I get up to speed about that I get sad. And I don’t want to do that. I’m 
avoiding the domination of being powerful and making that kind of contribution to the world.
ERHARD
That’s hard to hear—avoid the domination of being powerful. It’s hard to hear.
FRED
I don’t want that domination. I want to be free just in my relationship with my wife. I don’t 
want to be dominated by my commitment to her. I want to be away from that. I’ve dominated 
with anger, and with depression, and now with sadness. 
KIPP
There’s no freedom in wanting to be free. It sounds free but it is the trap. Whatever you can’t be 
with has you.
FRED
I found what this was all covering up. I just don’t accept myself. I don’t accept who I am. I have 
a tremendous fear of just being with, being with who I am.
KIPP
Yeah but that tremendous fear is what comes with being a human being. You don’t make it up; 
it makes you up.
ERHARD
I don’t like the term fear here. I’d like to be a little more precise. It’s really a threat in the form of 
the domination. The fear is just a part of it. In other words, your emotional system is going to be 


=== END OF PAGE 284 ===

=== PAGE 285 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Four 
271
consistent with what your racket is up to. So you’re going to have emotions appropriate to what 
your racket is up to. If what your racket is up to is avoiding domination, for you Fred, given the 
way you’ve got it structured, it’s going to produce a bit of fear. The fear is not the source of it. 
The source of it is avoiding the domination of the responsibility for being powerful and able. 
FRED
Thank you...
ERHARD
See if you weren’t frightened, you couldn’t justify avoiding. If you weren’t sad you wouldn’t 
have a reason. 
(to Kipp)
We didn’t deal with reasons yet have we?
KIPP
No.
ERHARD (jokingly)
Why are we so far behind?
KIPP
That’s one of my issues.
(laughter)
ERHARD
Comes up particularly around me, right? Otherwise he’s fi ne. Around me he’s got this issue. 
(returning to the topic)
Very important to get this. I want to cut out this crap of explaining your life on the basis of the 
way you feel... Fred is giving you the insight that the way you feel is a product of your racket, 
not the other way around. You are not molded by your fear. Your fears are there merely to be 
consistent with what your racket is up to, so you have got this kind of justifi cation. You are 
not run by your emotions. That’s the apparency. Underneath that, what’s driving things is the 
racket. 
FRED
Part of what I was looking at was also the inauthenticity/authenticity issue. I had it all wired 
that I was absolutely authentic. All I had to do was be around and I was authentic. And when I 
could accept the fact that I am inauthentic, not like guilt, or like mortal sin, or like confession... 


=== END OF PAGE 285 ===

=== PAGE 286 ===

272
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
Hold on. You want to get that. That conversation’s come up in here a lot of times and it’s still 
not fl at. Being able to be what you’re afraid you might be gives you power.
FRED
So when I fi nally looked at that I actually had a tremendous feeling of real freedom. I really got 
that I’m absolutely inauthentic, it’s just how I am, it’s like telling the truth for the fi rst time, 
it gave me a whole playground where I could just be or express or create who I am. I had this 
thing tied up with the God issue the lady had brought up before, that I was here on earth to be 
the guardian of the playground...
(laughter)
But I couldn’t play. My job was to be this superior, arrogant person who is going to guard and 
protect the playground, but I wasn’t going to get to play. But I can’t play. When I fi nally saw that 
I’m inauthentic, it was almost a celebration. It’s great! I’m inauthentic. Now there’s a place to 
start from to fi nd out who I really am. 
ERHARD
Don’t misinterpret what Fred is saying. He means what he says but don’t listen to it wrong. He’s 
saying, “embracing what you’re afraid you might be gives you power.” He didn’t say, “make 
being inauthentic right.” He said he was able to embrace it. That he was able to be in the face of 
it. Whatever you can be with lets you be. Whatever you can’t be with won’t let you be. 
FRED
So it’s like a...
ERHARD
It’s almost starting to get clear in here. It’s like “yeah, yeah, I know that, why are you saying it 
again?”
FRED
And so it’s like this whole new sense of freedom. You know before The Forum my wife was 
telling me, “Fred, you don’t know who you are.” That made me furious. And the truth is I don’t 
know who I am. And to be able to get that I’m inauthentic, that’s the most freedom I think I’ve 
ever had.
KIPP
It is the most freedom you’ve ever had.
FRED
I was looking at the issue of the empty and meaningless. I’m not sure that I have that like I have 
“inauthentic.” And I want to interact for a moment to get it...
“ 
might be gives you power.


=== END OF PAGE 286 ===

=== PAGE 287 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Four 
273
ERHARD
Hold on a second. You notice he didn’t say he was confused. You want to listen that he’s 
saying the same things a lot of other people have said in here. Talking about not quite getting 
something yet. But he’s talking about it, he has framed it, he’s construed it, he’s spoken it so that 
there’s an opening for him to get it. Rather than a way that there is no opening for him to get it 
so that Kipp has to beat him up to get him to get it.
FRED
So what I was looking at, the possibility that empty and meaningless, if we had the opposite 
of that, if life was full and fulfi lling there would be no space for me to come up, to express 
myself, to be fully blown as a human being, in the sense that I would be spending all my time 
trying to fi nd out what’s the meaning of life if it’s already so full? I’m looking at empty and 
meaninglessness as a place to start from like it’s empty, it’s open.
ERHARD
Here’s the problem in that. It’s one of the problems Kipp and I have in leading The Forum. 
This empty and meaningless you’ve got to get just like it is. You can’t get it as a place to start. 
If you’re getting it like a place to start you’re getting it in-order-to. You’ve got to kill hope. 
Otherwise your life is going to be full of hopelessness. See the one thing that goes away with 
hope... When you suff er the pain of getting rid of hope, the other thing that goes away with it 
is “hopeless.” We’re going to get a little deeper into this business about empty and meaningless 
and take a look at what the structure is. If it’s all empty and meaningless then how did all this 
crap happen? Everyone’s seen enough crap to be clear about the amount of crap there is? We 
don’t need to do more crap in here?
Erhard stopped to acknowledge a participant for how diff erent she looked from the fi rst day.
ERHARD (continuing)
In Fred’s straight talk about it, I want you to get that you’ve got to get it just to get it, not in-
order-to. See if there’s an iota of getting out of the trap in your getting it, you didn’t get it. You 
gotta go through the despair, you gotta go through whatever emotion you have, or whatever 
mood you’ve got about it. You’ve got to get it cleanly. You can’t get it knowing that there’s going 
to be a way out, because the way out is the way in. See if you get it knowing there’s going to be a 
way out, you didn’t get it because you got it in a way that’s going to keep you in. I had forgotten 
who I was talking to over here in the last session, what I said, that the attempt to get out of the 
trap... you know, what makes Californians silly is their attempt to get out of the trap, because 
the attempt to get out of the trap is being in the trap. What it is to be in the trap is to try to get 
out of the trap. You can’t get out if you try, because trying to get out is part of the trap. You read 
the right books, and they tell you that. Okay, so you fi gure, I’m going to give up trying to get out 
of the trap. Well, that’s part of the trap. See, you can’t get out if you try, because trying to get 
out is being in the trap. And you can’t get out if you don’t try. There’s no getting out of the trap. 
There’s no way to win this game; you can’t beat this one. You’ve got to be able to be in the trap. 
Every one of those words was chosen very carefully. You should listen to them very rigorously. 
Giving up, surrendering to the trap: won’t work. All that’ll do is leave you in the trap. Trying to 
“ 
When you suff er the pain of getting rid of 
hope, the other thing that goes away with 
it is ‘hopeless.’


=== END OF PAGE 287 ===

=== PAGE 288 ===

274
SPEAKING BEING
get out of the trap won’t work because the trap is constructed in such a way that the attempts to 
get out are the very bars of the trap. That’s what keeps you in the trap. You can’t get out if you 
try, and you can’t get out if you don’t try. You’ve got to be able to be in the trap. You know, you 
can’t write that. That’s oral. If you read it, it sounds like I said you’ve got to be able to be in the 
trap. No. I said you’ve got to be able to be in the trap. You’ve got to fi nd freedom in the ropes: 
full, total, absolute freedom in the ropes. You’ve got to fi nd freedom in your asshole-ness. Find 
freedom in the racket. Not avoiding the racket, not running the racket, not indulging yourself 
in the racket. “Okay, I’ll just do my racket.” That’s trapped. You’ve just surrendered to it, given 
up to the racket. Trying not to do your racket will just be a new racket, even if you succeed at it, 
which you probably won’t. Very, very rarely do people succeed at not doing their racket, and if 
you did succeed that would just be your new racket. Your new racket would be not doing your 
racket. Lots of people around here like that. They’re Enlightened. You’re the kind of people who 
fall in holes or get hit by busses. So, no in-order-to. It’s empty and meaningless. And it’s empty 
and meaningless that it’s empty and meaningless. It doesn’t mean anything that it doesn’t 
mean anything. It just doesn’t mean anything and it doesn’t mean anything that it doesn’t mean 
anything. And it isn’t going to work out. It isn’t going to work out because it already worked out. 
You think it’s going to work out someday. The right woman is not going to come along someday, 
the one who’s blonde and naked on a horse. You’re gonna be stuck with the one you got. You 
aren’t going to make it. There’s no making it. And you got plenty of evidence for that already. A 
lot of people in this room have a lot of making it already. There are no failures in here. We could 
go down the street and fi nd people whose lives are desperate due to their failures. Everyone 
in here is pretty successful in dealing with life. You’re pretty stupid, but you’re successful at 
dealing with life. We’ve made it this far despite our stupidity. Evidence that the stupid do make 
it... At any rate... So no cheating. You can’t cheat your way out of this. You’ve got to lose and 
then be able to be.
FRED
It looks like... I don’t know if that’s as far as I can take it. That’s what is. Like there’s no 
supporting, no stuff  around it.
ERHARD
Yeah. It’s called the existential moment of truth: naked and without any support. You’ve got to 
be able to be there. You’ve got to be able to be with nothing underneath you. You won’t make it. 
You won’t make it in The Forum. It’ll take years for you to get that. Fred and I have been working 
together a long time, pretty intensively. He’s a real good guy. It’s hard to tell when he talks about 
himself. You don’t get it all when you open it up. We’re opening it up in here. This is kindergarten. 
But it’s started. This is an experience over which you will never get. You’ll hear me talking for 
years. What you’ll never get over is knowing that you’ve got a choice. I know you don’t know 
what choice means yet, but you’ll never get over that. No matter how fucked up you get, that 
you’ll never get over. Still lots of work to do. And you’ll do it if you see it as a privilege to do that 
work.  If you can’t see what an extraordinary opportunity it is to do this work, then you ought 
to complete The Forum and get every ounce of value you can get out of it, and there’s plenty 
of value there to get, and you ought to go on your merry way. That’s a fair deal. You paid for it. 
You’re not obligated to do anything; you haven’t joined anything because there’s nothing to join. 
“ 
Giving up, surrendering to the trap: won’t
work. All that’ll do is leave you in the trap. 
Trying to get out of the trap won’t work 
because the trap is constructed in such a 
way that the attempts to get out are the 
very bars of the trap. That’s what keeps 
you in the trap. You can’t get out if you 
try, and you can’t get out if you don’t try. 
You’ve got to be able to be in the trap.
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 288 ===

=== PAGE 289 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Four 
275
FRED
When I made out my list of items for doing The Forum, I put down twenty-six individual, 
separate, items on the form I fi lled out for The Forum. And as I shared my detailed list with the 
lady I spoke to when I registered, she was aghast. What is driving me in the direction of twenty-
six items that need to get handled otherwise my life isn’t... Where is the value in me standing up 
here?
KIPP
Not in those twenty-six items.
FRED
Yeah, I got that far.
ERHARD
Who said there was any value? Who said there was supposed to be any value? Who said that life 
was about value? 
FRED
Um, that if I accomplish those things, then I would be of value.
ERHARD
No you wouldn’t. You’d be a guy walking around saying I accomplished those twenty-six things 
and now I have value. Nothing wrong with that.
FRED
Yeah.
ERHARD
Who said that those things were of value, was you.
FRED
Yeah, I did.
ERHARD
He made that up. It’s okay with me that he made that up. But he’s not the Pope, and the Pope 
doesn’t say that. He said that. The only problem with it is if he believes in it, if he believes 
that it’s true. If he believes that he said that and that’s the game he’s playing, that’s wonderful. 
You don’t have any value. You’re nothing. Nothing and bullshit. No value. And you’ve got a 
mouth. And you can say, “I’ve got these twenty-six projects, twenty-six commitments, and 
accomplishing them gives me value, because I said so.” Let me ask you a question. Is a ball 
in a hole at one end of a fi eld more valuable than a ball on the top of a little stick at the other 
end of the fi eld? Which is the more valuable condition? A ball in a hole? Or a ball on a stick? 
A lot of people think that God said that balls in holes are better than balls on sticks. They’re 
called golfers. They think that it is that way, and not that someone made it up... If you forget 


=== END OF PAGE 289 ===

=== PAGE 290 ===

276
SPEAKING BEING
that you say so, you do get nutty about it instead of having fun. So yeah, your twenty-six things: 
wonderful as long as they belong to you.
FRED
I just had the thought standing up here, that if I have so many things going on then I can avoid 
domination. Because I could always say “I’m too busy. I’ve got this meeting to go to so I can’t go 
to this other meeting.”
ERHARD
Lots of people too busy to do anything. Who in here is too busy to do anything? “I don’t get to 
accomplish anything because I’m too busy.” 
FRED
I gave up the twenty-six items and I saw that there’s no satisfaction in them. I’m driven to them, 
and there’s no sense of empowerment. So I’m actually looking at the wonder of complacency. 
That it might be just wonderful to go home and watch TV, have a beer and forget about my 
twenty-six items. There might be more authenticity in relaxing, watching TV with a beer than 
scrambling after my twenty-six items. 
ERHARD
Yeah, and neither one of them is going to get you anyplace. 
(pausing)
And you’re actually going to do what you’re going to do anyhow, not what you contemplate 
doing. You haven’t got much choice about it. In fact, none. You can only do what you do; you 
can’t do what you don’t do. As soon as I fi nd someone who has done what they didn’t do, we’re 
going to stop doing The Forum because it’ll be bullshit. So far, looking through half a million 
people, we haven’t found anybody who did what they didn’t do. Everyone’s only done what 
they did.
(to another participant sitting)
Get that? You ever do anything you didn’t do? You only do what you do, right? 
PARTICIPANT
I do what I want to do.
ERHARD
You do what you want to do?
PARTICIPANT
Always.
ERHARD
Always?
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 290 ===

=== PAGE 291 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Four 
277
(to another participant sitting next to the participant who said she does what she wants to do)
Sit on her lap, or hold her arms down, or something.
(the other participant sits on the fi rst participant’s lap)
Now: want to stand up.
(the participant cannot stand up)
So, you don’t always do what you want to do. And you don’t do what you like to do. You do what 
you do. That’s all you ever do. You’ve always done what you did, and sometimes coincidentally, 
from time to time it happens to be what you wanted to do.
PARTICIPANT
That’s nonsense.
ERHARD
It is nonsensical. 
PARTICIPANT
Then why do The Forum?
ERHARD
That’s what I said. We’re going to stop doing The Forum as soon as I fi nd someone who did 
something they didn’t do. 
A participant named Kevin stood, who, during Erhard’s conversation with Jacob in the previous 
session, had complained that the camera pointing at Jacob was also pointing at people in the “no-
video” section.
KEVIN
I came to The Forum very skeptical of the whole thing. My feeling was that I would probably 
get something out of it. I was sure I was going to have to go through so much bullshit I wasn’t 
sure I was going to last it out. As it turned out that was partially true, because I, like a bunch of 
other people, I sense, I felt like we were being sold the next session at every opportunity. But at 
this point in the game I’m willing to accept that too. It wasn’t as bad as I thought it was going 
to be. I didn’t really start to get into this until yesterday, or maybe it was today. In searching for 
my racket, I just couldn’t seem to fi nd my racket. But during the sharing, I had the feeling that 
every single person who stood, everyone’s racket seemed to be my racket. I couldn’t believe it. 
Today I guess I made a breakthrough. 
WES
Hold on. I want to complete this stuff  about “I guess I had a breakthrough.” I don’t mean even 
the “guess” part. Where are you looking to declare a breakthrough? Where does breakthrough 
occur?


=== END OF PAGE 291 ===

=== PAGE 292 ===

278
SPEAKING BEING
KEVIN
I felt like I discovered something I didn’t know before.
WES (pointing to his mouth)
This is where the breakthrough happens. Right here.
ERHARD (coming forward)
Wait a second, this is something we need to handle here. Kevin, did you know that you are 
stingy? 
KEVIN
Well, that’s kind of a surprise.
ERHARD
I want you to wake up to that. You are stingy, my friend. You think you’re precise and careful, 
but you’re actually stingy. You mistake precision and care—which are laudable—for being 
stingy. You’re ungenerous. Not big. It does not enroll people into your view. It alienates people. 
They don’t fuck with you because you’re too careful and precise. But they don’t like you. It’s 
unattractive and it disempowers you. You’ve probably got something to give, but nobody will 
get it from you. People won’t “get” from stingy people. I don’t require that you discuss that with 
me.
KEVIN
I don’t mind discussing it with you, I just can’t really fi nd in my mind where I’m stingy because 
I don’t think that other people feel that I’m stingy. I’ve got other problems, but I’m searching to 
fi nd where I’m stingy and I don’t see it. 
ERHARD
And that’s what I want you to do. I want you to stay in the question tonight about being stingy. 
Are you married?
KEVIN
Yes.
ERHARD
Ask your wife.
(laughter)
I don’t mean stingy with money. I mean stingy with forwarding the action, stingy with 
contributing aliveness, stingy with empowerment. Ask your wife, or ask the people that work 
for you. Okay, please go on. I don’t mean to cut you off  on that, I just think that it’s more useful 
for you to take a look at it overnight, and if you’re wanting to discuss it further I am willing to 
do that tomorrow. Is that all right with you?


=== END OF PAGE 292 ===

=== PAGE 293 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Four 
279
KEVIN
Sure.
ERHARD
Thanks.
KEVIN
Where was I? I was going to share my breakthrough.
ERHARD
You were going to share your “guess” breakthrough.
KEVIN
Now I’m not even sure what a breakthrough is. In any case, I feel like something happened. I 
don’t know.
WES
I don’t want to hear that. You’re either going to say there was a breakthrough, or you’re going to 
say there wasn’t a breakthrough. But there’s no guessing. There’s no maybe. There’s no place to 
look.
KEVIN
I had a breakthrough because something new and diff erent was happening to me that I hadn’t 
experienced before. 
WES
No, you had a breakthrough because you say so.
ERHARD
Kevin, breakthrough is a declaration phenomenon. Do you know the meaning of assertion? The 
commonplace meaning of assertion?
KEVIN
Yes. 
ERHARD.
Breakthrough is not an assertion. 
KEVIN
Okay.
ERHARD
It’s a declaration. 


=== END OF PAGE 293 ===

=== PAGE 294 ===

280
SPEAKING BEING
KEVIN
Okay.
ERHARD
It’s a stand one takes in the matter. That’s what Wes is discussing with you, to put it in more 
technical language.
KEVIN
Okay. 
ERHARD
That’s what he means when he says “It’s whatever you say it is.”
KEVIN
Okay.
ERHARD
Like a declaration.
KEVIN.
My breakthrough was my racket, fi nding my racket, which was standing right in front of me all 
the time, was that I have to do everything: Every goddamned thing in the world for everybody. I 
even have to run this Forum for you.
(laughter)
Now there’s going to be some people laughing, but as The Forum went along, I realized that I 
was running The Forum because The Forum wasn’t working out the right way for me, so I was 
having to make adjustments in The Forum so it was working out right for me. And so I made 
those adjustments. When I wanted to go to the bathroom, I went to the bathroom. And I tried to 
come on time, but I was late a couple of times, so I guess that means that I didn’t really try.
WES
No it means you were late.
KEVIN (laughing)
Sorry I said that.
ERHARD
You did try. 
KEVIN
Okay. I have to do everything because everybody around me is ineff ective. And I am very good 
at it. I can do anything. Fix this, make sure everything gets done, and I can’t let anybody do 
anything for me. And I was aware of this, but I never saw this was such a dominant feature of 
my life as I did until today. At that point it leaves my mind blank.


=== END OF PAGE 294 ===

=== PAGE 295 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Four 
281
ERHARD
Kevin, what was the last thing you just said?
KEVIN
I’m afraid to repeat anything I said you might have found interesting.
(laughter)
No, I said “At that point it leaves my mind blank.”
ERHARD
Got it.
WES
Let me give you some way to look at...
ERHARD
By the way, you’re not afraid of me, you’re afraid of looking bad.
KEVIN
I’m not afraid of you...
ERHARD
That’s right. You’re afraid of looking bad.
KEVIN
I’m a little bit afraid of you.
(laughter)
ERHARD
I’m going to leave you with that delusion.
(laughter)
WES
Inside of what you’ve said, I’ll give you another way of looking at it, or an aspect of it--
something to hang out with tonight along with Werner’s comment about your stinginess: you’ve 
been resisting being in a coaching conversation. 
KEVIN
Yes.


=== END OF PAGE 295 ===

=== PAGE 296 ===

282
SPEAKING BEING
WES
You’re going to do it your way. Now you’re not the only one in this room that’s going to do it his 
way or her way. That’s human being. And that’s the absurdity of human being. Because you’ve 
done it all your way and it took you to where you are now—no, sorry—it took you to where you 
were before The Forum. So if you tell the truth now about where you were before The Forum, 
you’ll see the eff ectiveness of doing life your way. The planet is full of people doing life their 
way. 
KEVIN
But I’ve done it more so than anybody else in this room.
WES
Always. 
KEVIN
No, I’m dead sure of that. See I have evidence. There’s only a few people here who wouldn’t 
allow themselves to be taped. And I’ve already talked to the other people. I didn’t seek them out 
after that stupid incident here. And I’m getting blocked here.
WES
You’re doing great. You’re actually getting off  it. If I hear you right: you’re willing to tell one on 
yourself, right?
KEVIN
Yeah.
WES
A person who resists a coaching conversation never gets coached. That’s 
got its...
KEVIN
You’re a great coach but, excuse me, I’ll... I’ll only take from you whatever I’m going to take. 
Everything comes through some sort of fi lter, and I only take whatever I think is okay for me, 
and the rest of it I think, for the most part you’re on the ball, but where you’re a little screwed 
up there, I’m not going to accept that. 
WES
Right, of course. I’m not saying “believe everything.” That’s not the other side of what I’m 
saying. But it’s not going along with it. We’re talking about a coaching conversation. 
KEVIN
It’s all right. I won’t let myself. I’m afraid to put myself in the hands of somebody else 
completely. Trust somebody completely. 


=== END OF PAGE 296 ===

=== PAGE 297 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Four 
283
WES
Okay.
KEVIN
I always have to back it up, in every way I can, so that if they screw up I’ll have a way to get 
myself out of the situation.
WES (shifting back and forth)
Yeah. So you’re like this. One foot kinda in, one foot kinda out? In coaching, right?
KEVIN
Professionally I’ve been very eff ective. Been very successful. So why am I here, well because this 
doesn’t work in other aspects of my life.
WES
It may not even work in the area you think it does work.
KEVIN
Well I think there’s certain objective evidence there that...
WES
Oh, I know you’re successful and all that stuff , but you have no idea of what could have been 
possible.
KEVIN
Oh yeah, I agree, now, looking back, I can see what I could have done better, if I... 
WES
Yeah, not even taking into account who you could be in life. 
KEVIN
Right.
WES
Rather than just successful, but who you could be. 
(to the group)
Kevin’s sharing something powerful in telling one on himself. Remember: people resist being 
coached, so we’re not really open to other people’s contribution. And to the degree you do that 
you miss the contribution that’s available. Now you can start to see that. You’ll always come up 
with a story that justifi es it; there’s always a story that justifi es it: “I didn’t like this”; “they’re 
selling me this”; “they said that”; etc. That’s human being. 
KEVIN
Oh, I’ve got a lot of those stories.


=== END OF PAGE 297 ===

=== PAGE 298 ===

284
SPEAKING BEING
WES
And there’s another possibility outside the story. And what you got to do to step into it is like 
you’re saying, “surrender into something.” I don’t like the word... give something up to get in 
there. To be a willingness to be contributed to, to be generous, to be big, to forward the action...
KEVIN
I feel like I need to risk something. 
WES
Yes.
KEVIN
And a... I’m going to have to risk something that is really, really important to me, and I’m not 
even sure what that’s going to be at this point. That’s going to be really tough. That’s going to be 
real tough because I don’t risk anything.
KIPP
Keeping yourself that closed up, that’s what’s been tough. Couldn’t be any tougher than you are 
doing now.
KEVIN
Well, I don’t think I have a story beyond that. 
WES
Here’s what I’m asking. Look at this conversation about being generous, about being big, about 
being coachable, look at this thing about what you’re willing to risk. Tonight. And come back 
and share it tomorrow. 
KEVIN
Okay.
KIPP
What is this thing you have about being video- taped?
KEVIN
Well, I’m really surprised that more people don’t want to be videotaped. I don’t trust you. I’m 
not willing to be videotaped because I don’t trust the organization, WE & A. Because I think 
you’ll fuck it up, one way or the other. And once it’s on tape, there it is, there’s a lot that you can 
do with it. A lot can happen to it. I lose control of it. So I don’t want to lose control again. So I 
don’t see why I should be videotaped, that’s for your benefi t. It’s not helping me. I came here to 
help me.
KIPP
And to be clear I am not advocating that you should be videotaped. Just between you and me I 
couldn’t quite get what it was all about. So I needn’t fi nd out.
Waiting for the Leap
Central to a dialogue for the presencing of Being, says Heidegger, 
is the abandonment of a “thirst for knowledge and greed for 
explanations”; we must, instead, be willing to wait, and to “abide 
in hope before what is worthy of thought” (“DL” in OWL 13). 
Therefore it is of interest that, at one point in his dialogue with the 
Japanese scholar, even Heidegger expresses impatience with his 
partner’s enigmatic hesitation: “I shall not hide from you that you 
are throwing me into a state of great agitation,” says Heidegger, 
“especially because all my eff orts to get an answer to my question 
from language experts and linguistic scholars of language have so 
far been in vain” (“DL” in OWL 28).
Heidegger’s agitation may give comfort to those of us who, 
thrown to the eff icient formulation of definitions and concepts, 
nevertheless aspire to true philosophic dialogue—conversations 
that in the vernacular allow for “deep thinking.” Such dialogue, 
which thinks its way into the unknown and trusts the dialogue 
itself to find a way out, is a challenging undertaking, especially as a 
form of pedagogical inquiry. 
The balance of mutuality and directedness in ontological 
dialogue is one of the distinctions developed in the unspoken 
background of The Forum, and of this book.
The intention that generates ontological dialogue is the 
thinking of the unthought, and ultimately the unthinkable. 
Paradoxically, such thinking occurs both slowly and suddenly. As 
Werner Erhard has put it, you don’t get it and you don’t get it and 


=== END OF PAGE 298 ===

=== PAGE 299 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Four 
285
KEVIN
What the reaction was all about?
KIPP
No, exactly what you said, that you didn’t trust. The way you got trust, trust isn’t available. Trust 
to you is accounting. 
KEVIN
Right.
KIPP
So when you’re bored, you get this big accounting sheet with everybody’s name on it. 
Kipp did an entertaining demonstration of Kevin’s view of trust: as a matter of accounting, using a 
list he carried with him crossing people off  whom he did not trust.
KIPP (continuing)
And you walk down the path of life, with your little pad with everybody’s name on it, and “you 
remember twelve years ago we were working on that thing, I wanted to do that thing, but you 
got to and I didn’t?”
(crossing off  that person’s name on an imagined  list)
“Seventeen years ago, that company picnic, you walked over to the boss and started talking to 
him? And he stopped talking to me?”
(crossing off  another person’s name; pointing at another person)
“You didn’t do anything but someone with a beard like that did.”
(crossing yet another name off  the list, to laughter)
That’s what you call trust.
KEVIN
But my list is way longer.
KIPP
There’s no trust there, just adding up and keeping track.
KEVIN
That’s right. 
KIPP
Trust. I’m inviting you to consider that maybe, trust is simply, “I trust you.”
you don’t get it—for a long time—and then you get it, all at once. 
This is the moment of insight that Heidegger calls Augenblick—a 
moment of vision—and he says it occurs as a leap:
“
There is no bridge here—only the leap. [. . .] 
The leap alone takes us into the neighborhood
where thinking resides. [. . .] In contrast to a
steady progress, where we move unawares
from one thing to the next and everything 
remains alike, the leap takes us abruptly to 
where everything is diff erent, so diff erent 
that it strikes us as strange. [. . .] Though we 
may not founder in such a leap, what the leap
takes us to will confound us. (WCT 8, 12)
T
On the other hand, he cautions: 
“
Leap and vision require long, slow preparation. . . . 
(WCT 233) 
T
Nobody can in just one single leap take dis-
tance from the predominant circle of ideas, es-
pecially not if he is dealing with the well-worn 
tracks of traditional thinking—tracks that fade
into realms where they can hardly be seen. 
(“DL” in OWL 36)
Only one who takes the right running start can
leap. Everything is decided by this run, for it
means that we ourselves actually ask the ques-
tions again, and that we, in these questions,
first create the perspectives. (IM 196)
M
Yet it is important to remember, again, that while we are on the 
way to language and thinking, we are always within language and 
thinking. Therefore the paradox and reflexivity continues, once we 
have made that leap:


=== END OF PAGE 299 ===

=== PAGE 300 ===

286
SPEAKING BEING
KEVIN
But I don’t. 
KIPP
That’s right. I didn’t say to. I’m not manipulating you into trusting. I’m not advocating it...
ERHARD
He’s not going to get that because he still doesn’t get the distinction between assertion and 
declaration. Kevin, did you know that you did your whole number in your response to Kipp? 
You did “stingy”; you did “don’t risk”; you did “nobody does it right.”
KEVIN
Yeah.
ERHARD
Like counting down. That was totally automatic.
KEVIN
Yeah.
ERHARD
Not one thing you said had a shred of intelligence in it. I want you to listen to what I’m saying. 
It was not an expression of your intelligence. It was not an expression of your common sense. It 
was an expression of your act—limited completely to your act. You had no choice in the matter. 
It was not some product of an intelligent choice or a commonsensical choice.
KEVIN
I’ll accept that.
WES
So you got the assignment?
KEVIN
Yes.
WES
I just want to acknowledge your willingness to be in this conversation.
KEVIN
I just wanted to say to everyone else in the auditorium, that I’m safe to be around. It’s not 
that bad.
“
And where have we leapt? Perhaps into an 
abyss? No! Rather, onto some firm soil. Some? 
No! But on that soil upon which we live and 
die, if we are honest with ourselves. A curious, 
indeed unearthly thing that we must first leap 
onto the soil on which we really stand. (WCT 41,
T
emphasis added)
In distinguishing the leap, Heidegger continues the reflexivity that 
characterizes his thought: we leap to where we already are.
In Being and Time, he says that Dasein “is existentially that 
which, in its potentiality-for-Being, it is not yet. . . .  [O] nly because 
it is what it becomes (or alternatively, does not become), can it say 
to itself ‘Become what you are’ and say this with understanding” 
(BT 185–186). Scholar Joan Stambaugh calls this movement of 
thinking an “ongoing reaching that belongs to what it reaches” 
(ID 14).
As we have noted elsewhere, such reflexivity is central to the 
thinking of Zen, as Erhard has observed: “In Zen, one is working 
toward enlightenment from and in a context of already being 
enlightened” (Bartley 125). ■


=== END OF PAGE 300 ===

=== PAGE 301 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Four 
287
(applause)
At this point Jane raised her hand. When she stood, her appearance was strikingly diff erent, and the 
participants applauded.
ERHARD (to Jane)
Do you know what they’re clapping about?
JANE
No.
(laughter)
ERHARD
People don’t clap for ugly worthless people, do they?
JANE
No.
ERHARD
So you know what they’re clapping about?
JANE
Yeah.
ERHARD
They’re clapping in part due to your attractiveness, which comes from your being a big, 
generous person. 
JANE
Hmm hhmmm.
(laughter)
ERHARD
You got that didn’t you? You’ve been big and generous in our conversations, haven’t you?
JANE
Yeah.
ERHARD
Good. Nothing to be embarrassed about there. Nothing to be caught in. They’re also clapping for 
another kind of generosity and that’s the generosity that they think they see and that I think I see in 
your beginning to get off  it. Like getting off  your act about being worthless. All those other things. 


=== END OF PAGE 301 ===

=== PAGE 302 ===

288
SPEAKING BEING
JANE
Yeah.
ERHARD
You think you’re getting off  that? Being ugly and worthless?
JANE
In some ways, but it’ll probably still be with me.
ERHARD
You’re saying that you’re getting off  it but that in some ways it’ll probably still be with you?
JANE
Yeah.
ERHARD
Couple things. First off , there’s the diff erence between apes and you and me: you and me 
have “probablys.” The ape doesn’t have any probablys, because the ape doesn’t have—listen 
up here—don’t get sucked in by her attractiveness...
(laughter)
The ape doesn’t have any “probablys” because the ape doesn’t have any language. Only you 
and I have probablys. And we invent those probablys with our mouths. We don’t know that. We 
think we’re inventing probablys by extrapolating the past into the future. You understand the 
word “extrapolate”?
JANE
No.
ERHARD
Extending the past into the future? You know you take a line that goes like this...
(drawing a line in the air)
And then it goes like that. You’re extending the line from the past into the future.
JANE
Yeah.
ERHARD
So, you and I think that we say probably based on this mental operation called extending the 
past into the future. And that’s why you said “probably” to me, is it not?


=== END OF PAGE 302 ===

=== PAGE 303 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Four 
289
JANE
Yeah.
ERHARD
Because given your past you’re probably not going to get off  it entirely, are you? 
JANE
Yes.
ERHARD
And that’s sensible and intelligent dealing with the future as an extension of the past. Did you 
follow what I said?
JANE
A little.
ERHARD
When you said “I probably wouldn’t get off  it entirely,” I said that was an intelligent, sensible 
extension of your past into the future.
JANE
Okay.
ERHARD
Good. Now there’s a particular discussion I want to have with you now. Our previous 
discussions have been for your benefi t. This one I’m having for the benefi t of the group. I think 
you have something to contribute here; that you will be an example that will illustrate what I 
want people to be able to see as powerfully as anybody else in The Forum could illustrate it. I 
want to be straight with you and tell you that so that I can fi nd out if you’re willing to have this 
discussion with me. And you won’t know what that discussion is; you’ll have to take a chance. 
I’m not saying you won’t get any value out of it, because you may. I suspect you will. Probably. 
(Jane smiles)
Anybody see her smile like that before? Okay, so, you with me? Ready to do this?
JANE
Yeah.
ERHARD
Earlier we talked about when you were four, fi ve, or six, and what it looked like for someone 
of that age for your mother to be taken away... you get that it would look that way for a child 
that age, that “my mother left me, or abandoned me, or she was taken away”? By the way, it 
doesn’t make any diff erence that she can’t remember that. Remember you told me you couldn’t 
remember that very clearly? But we know it happened and that somebody either told you or you 
fi gured it out. It’s not something you remember directly, right?


=== END OF PAGE 303 ===

=== PAGE 304 ===

290
SPEAKING BEING
JANE
Yeah.
ERHARD
Right. That’s there more powerfully than what she remembers. Is there anybody who doesn’t 
understand what I just said? Stand up. 
(a participant standing up)
I said, what’s there when it’s not recognized—I hate this word but I’m going to use it because 
it’s getting late and I want people to understand—what’s there and unconscious is there more 
powerfully in terms of its ability to shape your behavior and your feelings and thoughts than 
what’s there and is conscious. You got that?
PARTICIPANT
Yeah, I got it.
ERHARD
Okay, so that’s there whether she remembers it or not. And then there was this woman who 
came in and broke the bond, which was your haven, with your father.
JANE
Yes.
ERHARD
Good. And I said that... I fi rst asked if you made any decisions. You remember that? 
(many participants replying “yes”)
Whatever it was, she made some decision. And I said this was a critical point, this was 
something that everybody’s got to get. I said: “we talk about it like ‘I decided,’ and maybe you 
did, but what really happened is that you became huh huh huh huh huh... You became that 
‘I’m worthless.’ It’s not merely ‘I decided.’ That’s not forceful enough. It’s: you became ‘I’m 
worthless.’” You remember that, vaguely?
JANE
A little.
ERHARD
Okay, good.
ERHARD (to the group)
You remember that?


=== END OF PAGE 304 ===

=== PAGE 305 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Four 
291
(many responding “yes”)
Remember I said “you become something.” You are worthless. Or to say it with a little bit more 
rigor: You now are that you are worthless. Everybody got that? Anybody didn’t get that? Okay 
good. Now what we’re going to look at is where did all this mess get generated? Why would 
anybody be stupid enough to generate the kind of mess you got? Anybody not clear there’s a 
mess here? Do we need to get more mess up for you? Everybody’s got a mess. People in here 
are in good shape to start with, and still we’ve got a mess. Can you imagine what it would be 
like for somebody who is in bad shape? We screen out people who are in bad shape. We only 
let people in here who are in good shape. Most people who have participated in our programs 
are above average in their adjustment to life; they are able to handle life on average. What we’re 
going to look at here is where did this mess come from?
(pausing)
Now you’ve got to get back to where Jane was. I said I want you to be standing in being a 
four-, fi ve-, six-year-old and I want you to tell me—I want to know-what it looked like from 
there. So you want to get there in order to get this. You’ve got to be a little girl whose mother 
is gone. Either abandoned her or taken away from her, whose only place of belonging is in her 
relationship with her father. And that bond that represents for her the only place of belonging, 
which represents for her “home”—I don’t mean a building with a family in it—I mean a home, 
like being home, home. Being home, home. And that bond, which represents being home: home 
is broken. And so what do you suppose you decide when that happens? You got any idea what 
you decided when things got to be that rotten?
JANE
I think I decided not to love her and ignore her.
ERHARD
Yeah. Very good. And you’ve been working over on top of that trying to be good about, trying to 
love her and trying to respect her? Yes?
JANE
Yes. But I can’t do it.
ERHARD
Yeah. That’s what you decided about the situation. What did you decide about life? Can you 
remember? Take a look.
JANE
I would try to outdo her so my dad would like me more than her. 
ERHARD
Yeah. That’s great. So that’s looking into the situation. You decided that about the situation with 
your stepmom. What I want to know and what I want you to look at Jane is if you can see what 
you decided about life itself. Take a look and see what you decided about life itself.


=== END OF PAGE 305 ===

=== PAGE 306 ===

292
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD (to the group)
And what you want to be doing is being a four-, fi ve-, six-year-old girl whose mother was taken 
away or abandoned her and whose only place of belonging, her only place to be, like be at 
home, was her father and that just got smashed. What did you decide about life? You see, you 
made all those decisions like she made about herself and about her stepmother, and about how 
she was gonna deal with her stepmother, and all that stuff . What I want to know now is what 
you decided about life. 
(to a participant with raised hand)
I don’t want an answer; I want you to think.
(indicating Jane)
She’ll answer: you think. 
(to Jane)
Remember what you decided about life? “I decided...”
JANE
Not to be worthless.
ERHARD
You mean, try to overcome being worthless.
JANE
Yeah.
ERHARD
That’s what you decided about yourself. What did you decide about life? 
JANE
I don’t know.
ERHARD
Okay good. 
(to the group)
So I’m going to tell you what you decided about life, because you’ve got one of those. You may 
have been three when you made that decision, or ten, or eleven, or twelve, but everybody in the 
room made the same decision in some circumstance similar to that which Jane just described. 
The only obvious decision such a child could possibly make... And that decision is there is 
something wrong here. Where? Where is there something wrong? Not you. That’s the part you 
already told us about. There’s something wrong here: in life! There’s something wrong here. 
Something is off . There’s something wrong! Can you see that would be an inevitable conclusion 
for some eleven-on-down-year-old person? You think about it for a second. If I get you as a 
A Violent Way
“The word ‘way,’” says Heidegger, “probably is an ancient primary 
word that speaks to the reflective mind of man” (“NL” in OWL 92). 
The central notion behind Heidegger’s use of “way” to designate 
his process of thinking calls for action and vigilance to maintain 
ground gained:
“
To clear a way, for instance across a snow-cov-
ered field, is in the Alemannic-Swabian dialect 
still called wëgen even today. This verb, used 
transitively, means: to form a way and, forming 
it, to keep it ready. Way-making understood in 
this sense no longer means to move something 
up and down a path which is already there. It 
means to bring the way. . . forth first of all, and 
thus to be the way. (“WL” in OWL 129–30)


=== END OF PAGE 306 ===

=== PAGE 307 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Four 
293
big, tough, mature, intelligent adult, and I get you into a bad enough set of circumstances, you 
ever remember saying to yourself, “life is fucked”? You see how easy that conclusion is for a 
three-year-old, four-year-old, fi ve-year-old? What would it take to come to that conclusion for a 
three-, four-, or fi ve-year-old? Nobody comes to your party. Your mother’s mean to you. Almost 
anything, right? Real easy, right? Not only easy, it’s inevitable. And it’s not merely inevitable 
circumstantially. I’m not going to demonstrate this part to you, I’m just going to tell you. So 
I’m not asking you to accept it or believe it: It’s the already always being of human beings—
that there is something wrong. If you’re a human being, you are that there’s something wrong 
waiting to happen. Now forget that, because I’m not going to give you enough evidence of 
that to make it clear. But I just want you to hear it. What I want you to get is that it’s inevitable 
circumstantially. When you were growing up you had a circumstance in which the inevitable 
conclusion was, would have to be, “there is something wrong here!” There’s something wrong 
innately, profoundly, deeply, at the foundation, there’s something wrong! Life is constituted—
you don’t think in these terms, but—life is constituted as something wrong. Something’s wrong! 
And you don’t make that decision. You are that there’s something wrong. Now, you don’t get 
that yet; you’re not supposed to get that yet. You’re supposed to follow what I’m saying.
(posturing as the voice in a participant’s “head”)
“Gee, I don’t know. I don’t think that I’m ‘that there’s something wrong.’ I see what you’re saying 
Werner, I see that it’s logical that I would have to have come to that conclusion in my childhood, 
like a way of being. But gee I don’t get that ‘there’s something wrong.’ I mean, I actually think 
there’s a lot of right things. I mean, I don’t live my life out of ‘there’s something wrong.’” 
(returning to his own voice)
That’s what you should be saying to yourself, unless it’s already obvious to you that who you are 
is that there’s something wrong. For most of you that won’t be obvious yet. What I said will be 
obvious: that there is in your childhood and in your early childhood the circumstances in which 
you as a child would have to come to the inevitable conclusion that there is something wrong 
in life. That part I know you can see. The part you can’t see yet is how to fi t that into today. So 
we’re going to fi t that into today for you now. Jane, so, what I said made sense? Like you decided 
there was something wrong?
JANE
Yes.
ERHARD
You answered the question I asked: Did it make sense?
JANE
Yes.
ERHARD
You got any recollection of having made that kind of decision?
One is the way oneself, since until one advances there is no way. 
This perspective of his own work emerged early on in 
Heidegger’s career as a professor of philosophy. Here he describes 
his development of this perspective, as it occurred for him during a 
course he taught early in his career:
“
. . . the course was most imperfect. Yet there 
was quickening in it the attempt to walk a path 
of which I did not know where it would lead. 
I knew only the most immediate short-range 
perspectives along that path, because they 
beckoned to me unceasingly, while the horizon 
shift ed and darkened more than once. 
(“DL” in OWL 6)
This is the first of three points that we want to stress here about 
Heidegger’s way: that in entering upon the way to Being, one 
is jumping off  into the unknown. This is necessary because the 
thinking of Being cannot be understood in advance of its being 
thought. Therefore its undertaking is necessarily an advance into 
what is not known. But it is important to note that this advance 
into the unknown is not simply thinking about some thought 
content which we do not yet understand, something that we 
know we don’t know. That would be equivalent to examining new 
territory using a map; but Heidegger has no map. Werner Erhard 
has made this point about his own work: in such thinking, we are 
not merely traveling in uncharted waters, but in water that does 
not always act like water (“Heart of the Matter”).
This is an important point for Heidegger: to be on the 
way we must free ourselves from our subservience to the 
“common comprehension,” which is “convinced it was born 
comprehending everything” (WCT 77). We must give up judging 
each new thought on the basis of whether it is consistent with 
our old thoughts, a tendency which is pernicious in our current 
mode of thinking.


=== END OF PAGE 307 ===

=== PAGE 308 ===

294
SPEAKING BEING
JANE
No, I don’t.
ERHARD
Okay, thank you. You can sit down now if you want.
(applause as Jane sits)
ERHARD
You became that there’s something wrong. The question is: What did you do about it? The 
answer is that from there on out, everything you did, everything you are, most particularly what 
you’re really good at, was a response to, a way of dealing with, that there’s something wrong! 
Your best moments, what you’re best at, what you’re most confi dent at, the best things in your 
life... You got married—listen up!—you got married because there’s something wrong. It was 
a way to deal with that there’s something wrong. No shit. I didn’t say your marriage wasn’t 
wonderful. Your marriage may be the greatest thing that ever happened, but you got married 
because there’s something wrong.  You had kids because there’s something wrong. You chose 
your profession because there’s something wrong. You live your life because there’s something 
wrong. And you developed the answers—that you got to what to do about the fact that there’s 
something wrong—to a very high level. You’re really good at a lot of things, aren’t you? Really! 
There are things you are really good at. The things you’re really good at—listen up. I know you 
don’t get it yet—the things you’re really good at started out, had their genesis, are at the source a 
way of dealing with that there’s something wrong. Here’s the evidence for my assertion: nothing 
satisfi es you. Nothing satisfi es you. The things that you’re good at don’t satisfy, don’t nurture 
you, don’t fulfi ll you, don’t leave you full of joy. They gratify you, because they make up for the 
fact that something’s wrong. But they don’t fulfi ll you, don’t leave you full of joy, don’t leave you 
fulfi lled. They don’t leave you complete. Did you ever notice, you’re never complete? Never. No 
matter what you accomplish. No matter what you build, no matter what you create, no matter 
what pleasure or accomplishment or satisfaction there is in your life, it’s never enough. 
(Erhard moves around the room, speaking very loudly and forcefully) 
And it’s never enough because you’re never going to be anything enough. You see, this is the 
other side of the coin. We were talking about the bad stuff  before. I’m talking about the good 
stuff . I’m talking about the good stuff  in your life: you know, your marriage, your romance, 
your love aff air, the job that you’re very good at, that you’ve really developed your real skills in. 
The stuff  in life that people can really count on you for. Your contributions to other people, the 
diff erence you’ve made in life: that’s also only in the service of making up for the fact that you 
are that there’s something wrong. The evidence for that assertion is that even the things that 
you’re the best at, even the things that are the fi nest part of you, like your contributions to other 
people, like the diff erence you’ve made for other people, like the sacrifi ces you’ve made for the 
benefi t of other people—you know, you raised children all your life and you’ve done a great job 
at it, and it’s still fucking not enough. You know you gave, gave, gave, and after a while you stop 
giving, because it’s not enough to make up for “there’s something wrong here.” Yeah. Nothing. 
Nothing. Nothing’s good enough for you, because nothing is for being good enough. Nothing is 
Clearly, in a thinking that requires our familiar way of 
thinking to be put under the possibility of deconstruction or 
erasure, one is inherently at risk. This point was made repeatedly 
by Heidegger, and is central to the rhetorical strategy of Werner 
Erhard. The identity, the subject, the cogito, which is presently 
dominating the clearing and thus confounding the appearing of 
Being, does not want to be displaced. In clearing our “there,” in 
unconcealing the clearing, we render our subjectivity homeless: 
this is essential, since in our being “put out of the home in this 
way, the home first discloses itself as such.” Thus the event of 
unconcealment is also “the happening through which human 
beings become homeless” (IM 186). Always on the way, we have 
no home. No wonder we resist.
In Being and Time, in a passage which Erhard has quoted, 
Heidegger states that any attempt to analyze Being “constantly 
has the character of doing violence, whether to the claims of the 
everyday interpretation, or to its complacency and its tranquilized 
obviousness” (BT 359; quoted in “Heart of the Matter”). Heidegger 
has further expressed this violent characteristic by describing the 
opening for Being, not as a sylvan and tranquil clearing, but as the 
turbulent battleground of a breach: “Historical humanity’s Being-
here means: Being-posited as the breach into which the excessive 
violence of Being breaks in its appearing, so that this breach itself 
shatters against Being” (IM 181). The sense of “historical” here 
is not that of mere facts and trivia; rather, it has to do with the 
making of history that occurs in moments when the way in which a 
human being understands itself transforms, leaps from identifying 
with what Erhard has termed the “story” to Being-in-the-world as 
a new possibility for Being. Any transformation threatens what is 
already there—held in place as it is by the “they” self who seeks to 
reduce, or level down, Being to accommodate the averageness of 
the everyday.
Thus, this fundamentally threatening nature of 
unconcealment produces in Dasein what Heidegger calls the “will 
to conquer that at the same time shrinks back” (IM 196). The task 
at hand is forbidding: to be on the way, Dasein must engage in a 
violent struggle to wrest Being from unconcealment, and in the 
struggle must risk itself essentially. “Here,” writes Heidegger,


=== END OF PAGE 308 ===

=== PAGE 309 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Four 
295
for being complete. Everything is for making up for that there’s something wrong here. What 
gives you your life—more accurately, sorry, more accurately—what gives you your self, what 
gives you your identity, the person you’ve built yourself into being, was built in response to
(speaking each syllable with equally intense emphasis)
that there is some-thing pro-found-ly wrong. Now if you need evidence, what you’ve got to use 
for evidence is “what is it that’s left you full of joy?” What is it? Look, there are eight hundred 
people in here in this room. There’s got to be some pretty remarkable accomplishments in this 
room. People of remarkable accomplishment; there’s got to be people in here who have made 
ridiculous contributions. There’s got to be people in here who have saved people’s lives, there’s 
got to be people in here who have nurtured people’s lives, there’s got to be people in here who 
have impacted whole communities, there may be people here who have made important, 
signifi cant contributions to countries, and there’s not one person in here satisfi ed. Not one 
person in here truly, completely, wholly fulfi lled. Not one person in here full of joy. That’s my 
evidence. 
(calling on a participant)
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 8)
I’ve done some looking at this and I have a question and we can use me as a case in point. 
When I was in the third or fourth grade, a few things happened close together, where I got 
really embarrassed, and I decided that no one was going to embarrass me that way again. No 
one is ever going to laugh at me again. Out of that I became a master student, head of the class, 
straight A’s all the way through college. Awards, degrees, all sorts of honors and no satisfaction. 
My fi rst wife made a fool of me and so in my second marriage I married someone that would 
never leave me. It’s all a solution to “no one is ever going to make a fool of me again.” 
ERHARD
Right.
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 8)
So all the things you’re saying I can really see in my life, where what could really be 
accomplishments are I’m making a point and I’m making sure there’s no satisfaction.
ERHARD
Right because there’s no satisfaction in compensating for being “there’s something profoundly 
wrong here.” All you do is what? Reinforce down there at the bottom that there’s something 
wrong here. 
(asking a participant to stand up; Erhard pushes against his shoulders)
It’s kind of like this: whatever you’re pushing up against, you’re attached to. I’m attached to 
him, just as surely if he held me close to him. In fact I’m more attached to him than if he held 
me close to him because he doesn’t have to do any of the work; I do all the work. 
“
the uncanniest possibility of Dasein shows 
itself: to break the excessive violence of 
Being through Dasein’s ultimate act of vio-
lence against itself. Dasein does not have this 
possibility as an empty way out, but it is this
s
possibility insofar as it is; for as Dasein, it must 
indeed shatter against Being in every act of 
violence. (IM 197)
M
As we show in our series of sidebars on Technology (during the 
third and final session of Day Four), The Forum provides an 
opportunity for Dasein’s calculative machinations to be seen for 
what they are, and the game is up. Yet only through this struggle 
can Dasein become itself, and serve its constitutive role as the 
site for the disclosure of Being: the struggle is “an act of violence 
against the overwhelming, but at the same time always and only 
for it” (IM 196).
Heidegger has at times described this ongoing struggle in 
oppressive terminology:
“
the renewed resurgence of the act of violence 
against Being, in such a way that the almighty 
sway of Being violates Dasein (in the literal 
sense), makes Dasein into the site of its appear-
ing, envelops and pervades Dasein in its sway, 
and thereby holds it within Being. (IM 198)
M
In his later work, it must be noted, Heidegger’s languaging of 
unconcealment is less violent: it is articulated more gently as a 
turning-toward Being, a releasement of and into Being. However, 
we emphasize the element of resistance here (as has Heidegger) 
because such resistance characterizes much of the dialogue 
in The Forum (as well as many discussions of Erhard himself). 
Erhard does not attempt to minimize this resistance; in fact, he 
acts strategically to unconceal it. For instance, early on Day One of 
The Forum, aft er confronting the participant Bill concerning being 
pressured to be in The Forum, Erhard asked, “Why was I bad with 


=== END OF PAGE 309 ===

=== PAGE 310 ===

296
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD (continuing)
(participant sits down)
So if your accomplishments are there as an answer to that there’s something wrong, to make 
up for that there’s something wrong, to deal with that there’s something wrong, then the more 
you accomplish the more powerfully the context—listen!—the more powerfully the context that 
there’s something wrong is established. See look...
(moving to the chalk board.) 
Remember the two circles, “tall” in two contexts? Suppose the context is “there is something 
wrong.” The more content you build, the more achievement, the more accomplishment, the 
more content builds, the more fulfi lled the context becomes. Anybody who can’t see that? 
SUZANNE
I don’t understand.
ERHARD
Okay, thank you. 
SUZANNE
I don’t understand the statement that the more achievement one has, that there’s something 
wrong.
ERHARD
Good. Did you see that she asked the question very precisely? Real big opening to get the 
answer. What I said was that “that there’s something wrong” becomes—you become that 
there’s something wrong; you are that there is something wrong. In other words, “that there is 
something wrong” is the clearing in which life happens now. It’s the opening for life to occur. 
It’s the space in which everything arises. You clear about that statement so far? That’s not the 
answer yet, but are you clear about that so far?
SUZANNE
Is it, “that there’s something wrong,” is it the cause and the achievement is the eff ect? Or...
ERHARD
Not quite, no. Sorry. The answer is no, and it’s like that, but it’s not that. It’s “that there’s 
something wrong” is the context, and the achievement is the content in that context.
SUZANNE
So, the achievement is not an eff ect of “there’s something wrong.” It’s a context.
ERHARD
It is a content of the context “there is something wrong.” See hold on for a second. This business 
about cause and eff ect you and I understand, and are very comfortable with. You don’t have 
to think that, you have those thoughts. You think in a cause/eff ect world. But the world of 
you just now? Because I want to get this story up. There’s a lot of 
people with that story here and I want to get that story killed.” 
This unconcealing clears the way for the appropriation of the 
resistance: participants in the dialogue, by recognizing, allowing, 
and owning their resistance, become who they are, in preparation 
for the disclosure of their possibility.
Lest the view of Dasein as scene-of-violent-unconcealment be 
taken as unduly negative, Heidegger adds an important point:
“
  This [talk of violence] looks like pessimism. But 
it would be preposterous to label Greek Dasein
with this term—not because the Greeks were
somehow optimists at bottom aft er all, but
because these assessments miss Greek Dasein
altogether. The Greeks were, to be sure, more 
pessimistic than a pessimist can ever be. They
were also more optimistic than any optimist. 
Their historical Dasein had not yet entered the 
realm of pessimism and optimism. (IM 197–198)
M
This way of thinking, in which relatedness with Being allows 
the transcendence of subjective value dualities, appears to come 
into play within Heidegger’s and Erhard’s ethics. While the results 
of The Forum, to whatever degree they manifest themselves in 
participants’ lives, are certainly played out in the moral arena, 
morals (and their contemporary variation, “values”) are an ontic 
issue, and the essential content of The Forum is ontological.
Here we think Joseph J. Kockelmans, synthesizing Heidegger, 
expresses Erhard’s view as well: “Every valuing, even if it values 
in a positive manner, is and remains a subjectivizing; it does not 
let beings be. To call God the highest value is to degrade the true 
essence of God” (On the Truth of Being 258). Being is not moral. 
Being “is” not anything except Being. 
The rhetorical conversation of The Forum, rather than taking 
morality as its content, approaches morality indirectly, by way 
of Being. Here, we wish to underline Heidegger’s point: that the 
violence of the act of unconcealing Being is the “flip side” of the 


=== END OF PAGE 310 ===

=== PAGE 311 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Four 
297
being is not like that quite. There’s causality too, but there’s a more subtle relationship, one of 
context and content. Contexts don’t cause contents. The relationship is not one of causality. It’s 
a diff erent relationship. But it’s like cause and eff ect, but not the same. 
SUZANNE
I’m equating achievement as power.
ERHARD
I don’t have any problem with that. However, achievement, even as power, in the context 
“there’s something wrong,” each achievement reinforces the context: the more achievement, 
the stronger, more forceful the context. As you build content, you validate the context. So for 
example, if I say two, and three, they’re content in the context called numbers. You follow that?
SUZANNE
Yes I follow that.
ERHARD
Very good. If I go on to seventy-four, ninety-nine, one third, and three point one four, I’ve 
expanded the amount of content, and by doing so I’ve validated the context called numbers. The 
context called numbers has gotten stronger and stronger. Even if the content is empowering, 
nevertheless the context is more and more validated. Clear?
SUZANNE
There is an aspect in that logic on what’s wrong: that area I’d like to explore. 
ERHARD
Please.
SUZANNE
I don’t see... I still don’t understand that statement. I’d like to go deeper. But then, not that 
I’m confused. I got an equation of the earlier, I never, I don’t want to share. But this particular 
premise strikes me because of achievement, the word achievement I equate with power.
ERHARD
First off , you’ve got your foot nailed to the fl oor about achievement a little bit—like some of you 
had your foot nailed to the fl oor about God and some of you had your foot nailed to the fl oor 
about sincerity—it’s kind of like you have idolized accomplishment a bit. Accomplishment is 
kind of like the Holy Grail for you. A little bit, and so it makes the conversation a little bit hard 
for you to hear. A little bit it sounds like I’m denigrating accomplishment. I’m actually not 
denigrating accomplishment, but never mind, it sounds like I am. Does it not?
SUZANNE
It did at the beginning.
attainment of the clearing of aletheia (please see the sidebar “The 
Three Levels of Truth” in Session Two of Day Four). Both positive 
and negative, emergence and concealment, violence and aletheia, 
are constitutive of Being. This idea is worked out most fully in 
Heidegger’s conception of the “Nothing.” ■


=== END OF PAGE 311 ===

=== PAGE 312 ===

298
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
Sure. So it makes the conversation a bit hard for you to hear. But now that we’ve said that let’s 
do what you asked to have done and take a deeper look.
SUZANNE
Yes.
ERHARD
So, did it make sense—was it valid for you—what I said that you and I and everybody else, 
as little girls or boys, had experiences in which it’s entirely logically, so powerfully logical, so 
predictable that we’re going to conclude that there’s something wrong, that we could all accept 
that at some point in our childhood we did conclude that there’s something wrong here? Or was 
that the logic you were questioning?
SUZANNE
I’m not going to add to that statement. That’s a period. There’s something wrong here. But in 
addendum you said “there’s something wrong here and the achievement is there.” That premise 
is correct. 
ERHARD
Okay good, I’m just trying to fi nd out where the sticking point is.
SUZANNE
I agree with that premise. 
ERHARD
So then I said that it’s not a mere conclusion, I said that you become that there is something 
wrong. You are that there is something wrong. You know, you’re a four-year-old, a fi ve-year-
old, and become that there’s something wrong and it becomes the shaping ground of being for 
everything you built. See, you built a Suzanne, and I built a Werner, and he built whoever he is. 
And I did it over years. I had a certain aspect of me built by the time I was fi ve. I had another 
aspect of myself built by the time I was nine. By the time I was seventeen I was pretty much 
built. Everything I’ve done since I was seventeen has been additive. I’ve gotten a little better, or 
a lot better at those things I was good at, or the things I could be good at. In any case, around 
that age, seventeen or twenty, they’ve built their persona, they’ve built an identity, they’ve built 
a self. Okay, I said that that self that I built was built in response to the ground of being called 
there is something wrong here. 
SUZANNE
For this moment I will accept that and think about it. 
ERHARD
Okay. Let me just give you one thing. That’s an assertion. And an assertion deserves evidence, 
because an assertion is a promise that I’ve got evidence. So I’m going to give you my evidence. 


=== END OF PAGE 312 ===

=== PAGE 313 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Four 
299
My evidence is that your best and my best moments, my talents, the “what I’m good at,” the 
“what I can be counted on”—including getting married, a good moment; having children, 
raising children, a good moment; doing well in my job, a good moment: I’m talking about 
the stuff ... I use to generate achievement. The exercise of that does not leave me full, whole, 
complete, full of joy. It’s gratifying. God knows that whenever I have an accomplishment, I feel 
great: a couple of moments, a couple of hours, a couple of days, a couple of weeks, maybe even 
a year. But at some point I’m back to: that wasn’t enough.
SUZANNE
So where is the satisfaction?
ERHARD
The level of satisfaction is that there’s no full satisfaction. There’s no being complete with life. 
One is always incomplete. It’s the conversation we had earlier about someday. See, someday, 
someday I’m going to contribute enough, achieve enough, to have made it. No. Because 
every accomplishment makes the context—there’s something wrong here—bigger, more 
stronger, more valid, all that below the level of awareness. See up at the level of awareness I’m 
developing myself and being a decent human being and making some sort of contribution, 
and taking care of myself and taking care of the people around me. That’s all content, that’s all 
foreground. The context, the background, which is reinforced by every achievement, is “there 
is something wrong here.” What that leads to is never being satisfi ed. Ever. Never being full of 
joy. Never. Never being complete never being whole. Life is always incomplete. And life is lived 
as a struggle to be complete, to fi nally be satisfi ed. So that’s my evidence. It doesn’t prove what I 
said, because you can’t prove an assertion. But it does validate it.
SUZANNE
So it’s best to assume that in anything we do we have that, we don’t get satisfi ed. There’s more. I 
should assume that there should be more.
ERHARD
I’m not saying you should assume that, I’m saying we live like that. You and I and the other 
eight hundred people sitting in this room and the other half a million people that I’ve 
worked with.
SUZANNE
So that follows the logic that life is meaningless and empty, and therefore if life is meaningless 
and empty, it is zero. Zero.
ERHARD
I don’t want to make the conclusion you made. Yes, what we are saying here is entirely 
harmonic with that life is meaningless and empty. You see it got to be pretty clear that 
everybody’s soap opera was bullshit, meaningless and empty, now I want to get it clear that the 
rest of it is bullshit: the good parts. I want you to see where they come from. So that you get that 
the whole thing is meaningless and empty. It’s not that I want it to be that way. It is that way. 


=== END OF PAGE 313 ===

=== PAGE 314 ===

300
SPEAKING BEING
SUZANNE
Yes. I get you.
ERHARD
Thank you very much.
(returning to The Forum leader who had shared about living life in order not to be embarrassed)
What did you say to get us started down this conversation with Suzanne? Is there anybody left 
that doesn’t get that as you built the content called accomplishment and contribution, you are 
reinforcing the context for that contribution, which context is “there’s something wrong.” Is 
that clear for everybody?
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 8)
So I wouldn’t be so foolish as to ask how to get out of this predicament.
ERHARD
Yeah, because you don’t. 
PARTICIPANT (Forum Leader 8)
I’m too smart I guess.
ERHARD
You see: What do you do about being dead? 
(laughter)
Nothing. See it’s not a bad thing to know that you’re dead when you’re dead. You lie down. 
You know that there are some dead people in the room? There are actually some dead people
in here–walking around bolt upright, dead though. There are people in here who have killed 
themselves. They didn’t kill their bodies, they killed their selves. Their bodies walk around but 
they are dead. There are dead people in here. You might even fi nd out that you were dead. That 
would be good news because then you could lie down and relax. 
(laughter)
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 9)
So one of the surprises for me in this Forum is that yesterday I saw that my racket is that I’m a 
victim...
ERHARD
This is very surprising to hear from a guy like this. Very accomplished, very able guy.
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 9)
And I’ve always disliked victims. So other than, so tonight for dinner, after the series of 
meetings I ended up that there was nobody to go to dinner with, and the violins begin to come 


=== END OF PAGE 314 ===

=== PAGE 315 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Four 
301
out. And true to what you said yesterday it occurred to me that this was me running my victim 
racket. I laughed at myself for a moment. And then I went to fi nd some people to go have 
dinner with.
ERHARD
See, hold on a second. He’s a little bit ahead of us. I almost wish he didn’t say that because now 
he’s leaked out the truth, and you’ll latch on to that real fast. That’ll be the new prison bars. 
When you get that it’s empty and meaningless you see things you’ve never seen before. As long 
as you’re stuck with your soap opera you can’t see those things. For instance, if who you are is 
that people are unable, you can’t see the opportunities to develop their ability. And you can’t 
see their ability. As soon as you get that that’s your racket, as soon as you get that whole soap 
opera that you’ve got to do everything your self because there’s nobody around able enough to 
do it, you begin to see things you didn’t see before. Now, I shouldn’t have told you that, you see, 
because you’ll spend the whole night trying to fi gure out how to get out of the trap. And you’ll 
come in here tomorrow all stuck in the trap again. We’ll have to spend the whole day getting 
you out of the trap. And then we’ll have to do an extra day of The Forum with you all. Go ahead.
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 9)
So I’m actually not going to ask the question now. But what I have gotten, and just to share, 
one is that some people’s coaching for me recently is to take myself a little less seriously and I 
can hear the room to be that way now. Secondly, is I’ve been able to share myself with people, 
Werner, not like something happened.
ERHARD
To speak himself. Not in-order-to.
PARTICIPANT (Forum leader 9)
I can see as a graduate, staff  member, and Forum leader candidate, that that’s probably 
something for all of us to take on, the sharing in-order-to business.
ERHARD
Good. Thank you.
(applause)
ALEX
What about a child who’s been told everything’s right?
ERHARD
That’s called Skinner’s “glass box,” and Skinner already demonstrated that it doesn’t work. Did 
you get my answer?
ALEX
Yes.
“ 
For instance, if who you are is that people 
are unable, you can’t see the opportunities 
to develop their ability. And you can’t 
see their ability. As soon as you get that 
that’s your racket, as soon as you get 
that whole soap opera that you’ve got to 
do everything your self because there’s 
nobody around able enough to do it, you 
begin to see things you didn’t see before.


=== END OF PAGE 315 ===

=== PAGE 316 ===

302
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
The other answer is that you don’t actually get that from what happens, you’re already always 
that as a human being. In other words, you are “there is something wrong here” waiting to 
happen. See listen, if we had the time, and we don’t—that’s another program—I would get up 
enough people in here whose experience was almost always what you and I would call positive. 
The athletic kids, the successful kids, the right kind of families. And you would fi nd out that 
they had somehow fucked that up. It’s amazing. Hard to believe. There are people in here like 
those kids we grew up with that we thought had it all. People like that in here. And if they stood 
up and shared with you, they would tell you that it was bad.
ALEX
Yeah.
ERHARD
So there’s no way to escape it. Even if you’re told “you’re wonderful,” “you can have anything 
you want,” “life is great.” Now, that is preferable over being told that you’re shit. No question 
about that.
ALEX
That is my question. Is that preferable?
ERHARD
Oh sure. It’s kind of like carrying less baggage. You’re still going to carry the baggage. You’re 
still going to get into the trap. You can’t keep your kids out of the trap. 
ALEX
The kid is told “You can do anything you want to,” or the parent gets that child in as much 
diffi  culty as to tell the child they’re worthless. Is it in the same elevator shaft, or is it diff erent?
ERHARD
That’s correct. I’ve looked at it as far as I can see it, and yes. But it’s too long of a conversation to 
have right now.
LUCY
Two things. One I found this conversation the most powerful for me personally. The experiences 
that I heard are very applicable to me.
ERHARD
One will hear oneself in other’s sharing.
LUCY
I think I understand why I don’t get a sense of fulfi llment out of the many things that I...


=== END OF PAGE 316 ===

=== PAGE 317 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Four 
303
ERHARD
Sure because you’re an accomplished person.
LUCY
I am trying to avoid something, that feeling that something is wrong. But the next question that 
comes to mind is what is the strategy to fi x that? And you said you don’t fi x it.
ERHARD
No you don’t.
LUCY
But I don’t agree with that. 
ERHARD
It’s not that you don’t agree with that. You are addicted to fi xing it. 
LUCY
That’s true.
ERHARD
You have to have an answer. 
LUCY
Not an answer, but to fi nd a way to fi x it, and then fi x it.
ERHARD
Yeah. You and Suzanne ought to get together. These are two achievement nuts. You can’t fi x it. 
LUCY
Why not?
ERHARD
Well, you tell me how to fi x being dead and I’ll tell you how to fi x it.
LUCY
Well a lot of things are one’s frame of mind and how you think things...
ERHARD
That’s not true. A lot of things are explained using the terminology of the frame through which 
you look at things. Like positive thinking. Good stuff . What kind of a person would need to 
think positively? 
LUCY
Somebody who’s kind of negative.


=== END OF PAGE 317 ===

=== PAGE 318 ===

304
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
Yeah. Every time you think positively, that is the content. The context is negative, that you are 
a negative person. Life is negative. No kidding. I’ve done that whole achievement thing for 
quite a while. Made a lot of money doing that. Lot of money. That whole business about being 
successful and achieving, and positive thinking. You name it I did it. And it works. The problem 
is that it’s never enough. Never fulfi lled, never whole. What you’re asking me is how to get out 
of the trap and the answer is that the attempt to get out of the trap is what keeps you in the trap. 
I want you to think about this tonight. This is hard to get. Because getting out is supposed to get 
you out. In this case getting out keeps you in. This is a very strange kind of prison. The bars are 
not made of iron. They are made out of the attempt to get out of the prison. So Lucy, tonight, I 
want you to see if you can come to accept that you’re going to have to live the rest of your life in 
this prison.
LUCY
I have another question. The concept... life is empty and...
ERHARD
I don’t talk in concepts. Distinctions.
LUCY
I’m trying to relate how we can apply it to our lives.
ERHARD
You cannot apply it. Worthless, useless information.
LUCY
Then what’s the purpose in knowing that? Or accepting that?
ERHARD
Because it’s the truth.
LUCY
But how can knowing that or accepting that create personal power for us?
ERHARD
So wonderful. Hold on one second, I’ll be right back.
(to the group)
Lucy and I are going to demonstrate terminally that you are addicted to the answer, that you are 
addicted to getting out, to getting the answer. That no matter how many times I’m going to tell 
you that the attempt to get out is the bars of the prison, you’re going to spend the rest of your 
life trying to get out. She’s going to demonstrate the very thing I’m talking about; she’s going to 
demonstrate that she’s going to spend the rest of her life trying to get out. And nothing I tell her 
is going to stop her. There are no answers. You don’t get out. It’s not going to work out. It’s not 


=== END OF PAGE 318 ===

=== PAGE 319 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Four 
305
going to be all right. You know how it’s going to be? Just like this. Yeah, it’s not gonna be all right. 
It’s going to be like this. You’re either going to make it like this or you aren’t going to make it.  
You’re either going to learn to be in prison or you’re just going to be unhappy. You’re going to be 
in prison one way or the other. So, why did we talk about empty and meaningless if it isn’t going 
to be useful? Because the truth has power not predicated on being useful. The truth has power, 
which most people can’t see. You want to get this because Lucy’s question opens this up. The 
truth has power, which you can’t see, because you’re only looking for what’s useful. You’re not 
looking for power, you’re looking to exploit, to use, to consume. So you can’t see the power of the 
truth. So Lucy, what I said was, that the truth has a power that, if you’re only looking for what 
you can use, you can’t see. That’s why we had that whole thing about empty and meaningless. 
LUCY
I can think of a way that “life being empty and meaningless” can be of use to us and giving us 
power.
ERHARD (to the group)
Am I demonstrating my point?
LUCY
One of the many alternatives I can think of... 
ERHARD (to the group) 
You want to listen to this.
LUCY
I think it revolves around the issue of performance versus expectation and if we tell ourselves 
often enough that life is empty and meaningless, our expectations as a consequence would be 
set lower over time, potentially...
ERHARD
No.
LUCY
And performance of life relative to expectations, could make us...
ERHARD
That’s wonderful. You ought to do a seminar on that. People would buy that. Look, they bought 
thinking positive big. Yeah, I expect there to be a seminar—if you don’t do it, somebody will. So 
you ought to do it: The Empty and Meaningless seminar, the purpose of which is to lower your 
expectations far enough down that anything feels like winning.
(applause and laughter)
You’re actually having fun with me, aren’t you? She doesn’t mean this, she’s only joking with 
me. She’s kidding me. She’s not looking for the answer. She knows there’s no answer. She’s only 
kidding with me. 
“ 
...the truth has a power that, if you’re only 
looking for what you can use, you can’t 
see.


=== END OF PAGE 319 ===

=== PAGE 320 ===

306
SPEAKING BEING
LUCY
Well, I disagree. I really do. Because I think everything is a state of mind. 
ERHARD
Oh absolutely. You go out and tell the bus that. Lucy, you’ve been in too many success seminars. 
Everything is not a state of mind. Buses are not a state of mind. I don’t care what anybody has 
told you. And the evidence is all on my side. 
(responding to a participant not on camera)
Excuse me?
(repeating thoughtfully what the participant said)
A new suit of clothes for the king. Yes. My tongue’s way more tied than yours is; you can’t out 
tongue tie me. Yeah, I understand what you said. I was just trying to get it. Yeah, what about it?
(repeating what the participant said—who does not have a microphone)
Is that all in the mind?
(addressing himself out loud)
Let’s see, am I going to give him the truth or just shut him up?
(laughter)
It’s all in the mind.
(laughter. Then seriously)
To stop being a smart-ass about this, I will respond to you. Yes, it is what you and I ordinarily 
call “in the mind,” but if we look a little closer, it is not in the mind, it was in the mouth. A suit 
of clothes is a conversation, not a mental image. But that is a fi ne point and your point is valid. 
Buses are not a suit of clothes, right? It’s not all in the mind.  A lot of people think buses are in 
the mind. And they look like they’ve been hit by buses.
(to Lucy)
You all done?
LUCY
Yes, I’m done.
ERHARD
Okay great!
(applause as Lucy sits )


=== END OF PAGE 320 ===

=== PAGE 321 ===

Forum Day Three: Session Four 
307
ERHARD
Okay, there’s a certain part of The Forum for which you need to be less tired. I didn’t say not 
tired. I said less tired, less tired than you’re going to be if I answer all your questions!
(laughter)
So we’re not going to answer any more questions tonight. Tonight we’re going to...
(after a participant shouted out: “Let’s vote.”)
Does it really make you feel good to vote?
(laughter)
What about “The rug is red? Yeah!”
(laughter)
If you like voting why don’t you vote on stuff  like that? “Yeah! This rug is red! Yeah!”
(clapping with everyone else joining in)
So, we’re not going to keep you up with answering questions, we’re going to keep you up with 
an assignment. Stay up at home. 
KIPP
Between tonight and tomorrow morning your assignment is to get clear that life is empty and 
meaningless. So what you’re going to come up against between tonight and tomorrow morning 
is all those places that you say have...
(the group shouts back: “meaning”)
And you’re going to inquire into those to see that they are...
(the group shouts: “meaningless”)
ERHARD
One other thing is to look at where they’ve made it mean something that life is empty and 
meaningless. Particularly add that in there. 
KIPP
The second part: what you’ve made it mean that life is empty and meaningless. Therefore... 
There is also an invitation: to share what’s been opening up for you with people in your life. Get 
clear that life is empty and meaningless. And what have you made it mean that life is empty 
and meaningless?
The third day of The Forum concluded.


=== END OF PAGE 321 ===

=== PAGE 322 ===

308
SPEAKING BEING
The Forgetting of Being, Part Six of Eight: Saying Nothing
The bundle of concepts associated with non-Being and the negative—emptiness, 
meaninglessness, nothingness, nihilism—are of central significance in understand-
ing the rhetorical movement of The Forum. They are likewise fundamental in the 
work of Martin Heidegger; and are deeply embedded in the perspective of Zen, an-
other major influence on Werner Erhard’s thinking. According to the Japanese schol-
ar Masao Abe, who has written extensively about the relationship of Zen to Western 
thinking, “Martin Heidegger takes the issue of ‘nothingness’ not only with utmost 
seriousness, but perhaps with the most profundity in Western history” (Maseo Abe, 
Zen and Western Thought 134). For both Heidegger and Erhard, a transformative 
ontological event—an experience of Being (of what it means “to be”)—demands an 
authentic encounter with Being’s other side; and a conversation that aims to evoke 
such an encounter makes special demands, since, says Heidegger, “there is, aft er all, 
something peculiar about Nothing” (IM 30). 
We cannot overstate the importance of this element in Erhard’s work. Central to 
his achievement has been the development of a rhetorical structure—manifested in 
both the est Training and The Forum—that consistently provides participants with 
an experience of nothingness as a liberating context for their lives. The experience 
is evoked by a progression of ontological distinctions, generated in speaking by 
the Forum leader and developed dialogically with the participants. What is made 
present in the dialogue—heard, though unsaid—is Being; and its presencing occurs 
in a particularly dramatic way. One of Heidegger’s central claims is that an experi-
ence of Being must be preceded by an experience of Being’s other side, nonbeing, 
which Heidegger called the Nothing. Human existence, he says, means “being held 
out into the nothing” (“WM” in BW 103). This requires that one open oneself to an 
experience of meaninglessness, an experience that one may encounter in moments 
of anxiety, despair, or profound boredom—moments when the meaning of life drops 
away, and one confronts existence nakedly, without the familiar comforts of one’s 
personal identity. Human beings, says Erhard, are addicted to their identities, and 
an addiction cannot be dealt with eff ectively until the addict has “hit bottom.” But 
for Forum participants, most of whom have achieved a comfortable level of personal 
and professional success, such an experience may never arise—without assistance. 
Therefore the function of The Forum is to “raise the bottom” so that participants hit 
it; and where this happens is in the confrontation with the Nothing, as the conversa-
tion’s penultimate distinction.
END OF DAY THREE INTERVAL
In Heidegger’s work, of course, the distinctions are presented in writing. While
many of his published works were originally delivered as lectures, and although
he is reported to have been exceptionally dynamic in their delivery, there is little 
evidence that dialogue was an element of his pedagogy; and in the cultural context
in which he worked, certainly nothing like the personal interactions of The Forum
would have been possible (see the sidebar “Heidegger’s Pedagogy,” in Session Two
of Day Two).
But consider: while Heidegger’s collected works include 102 volumes, he is gen-
erally acknowledged to have been single-minded in his exploration of one question:
the question of Being and its meaning. As he wrote in 1947, “To think is to confine
yourself to a single thought that one day stands still like a star in the world’s sky”
(“TP” in PLT 4)
T
. Significantly, a few pages later we find: “What is spoken is never, and 
in no language, what is said” (“TP” in PLT 11).
T
In Heidegger’s writing, then, the distinctions that he created to speak Being are
generated and communicated in the unspoken/unwritten background. There is, we 
propose, a central encompassing distinction—the Distinction—that is hinted at by all
of the distinctions, a “single thought” that remains unspoken and the Same through 
all of the turns and evolutions of his thinking. The rubrics for the various distinc-
tions that comprise the Distinction, such as the Same, the they-self, and the Nothing,
occur repeatedly throughout his work as he opens new ways into the distinctions,
beginning from diff erent originating terms. In an essay from a collection entitled 
Holzwege (“Woodpaths”), Heidegger wrote this:
“
“Wood” is an old name for forest. In the wood are paths 
that mostly wind along until they end quite suddenly in an 
impenetrable thicket. They are called woodpaths. Each goes 
its particular way, but in the same forest. Oft en it seems as 
though one were identical to another. Yet it only seems so.
Woodcutters and foresters are familiar with these paths. They 
know what it means to be on a woodpath. (Quoted in Krell, 
“Introduction,” BW 34)
W
For the authors of this book, our experience of Werner Erhard’s work has enabled 
us in negotiating the “impenetrable thickets” of Heidegger’s writing—if not with the 
skill of woodcutters, at least with the sense that we are always on a way. 
Krell comments that in Germany, “to be on a woodpath” means to be in a cul-
de-sac, a path that leads nowhere and has no exit. As an analogy for the rhetorical 
strategies we find in the work of Werner Erhard, the “no exit” image is of interest. 


=== END OF PAGE 322 ===

=== PAGE 323 ===

Forum Day Three: End of Day Three Interval 309
Throughout this book, we are proposing that both Heidegger and Erhard make
important use of reflexive languaging—ideas presented in such a way that they turn
thinking back upon itself, pulling the rug out from under the reader or the listener 
(e.g., “This statement is false”). We suggest that the reflexive impulse (reflex, reflec-
tion, self-referentiality, getting the joke) pervades the thinking and the languaging 
of both men, most dramatically when they are saying the Nothing. These reflexive 
processes share a particular aff inity with the movement of thinking that makes
available an experience of Being, and one view is that they evoke a cul-de-sac.
At a debriefing meeting between sessions of the 1989 Forum, Erhard told The 
Forum leaders that the “critical condition of satisfaction” for doing The Forum is 
that for the participants it must be inescapable. That is, in Heidegger’s terms, all 
exits by which the they-self might escape an authentic confrontation with its own 
thrownness must be closed. To this end, a cul-de-sac may be a useful model; and
The Forum’s culminating distinction (as well as the final process of the est Training)
t
may be seen as eff ective speaking of that form.
The French existentialist Jean-Paul Sartre evoked the cul-de-sac image in the
title of his play, No Exit; and one of Heidegger’s most important essays, published in
1947 as the “Letter On Humanism,” was written, in part, as a response to an essay 
by Sartre. A comparison of Sartre’s thinking with Heidegger’s is beyond the scope of 
this book, but we will gloss the diff erence in this way: for neither man is there an exit 
from the trap of the human situation; but for Heidegger, the appropriation of that
situation—the appropriation of entrapment—creates the possibility of authentic 
entrapment. The situation becomes the Situation, which gives releasement.  ■


=== END OF PAGE 323 ===

=== PAGE 324 ===



=== END OF PAGE 324 ===

=== PAGE 325 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
311
When the fi nal day of The Forum began at 9:00 am, Kipp was at the front of the room. As soon as 
participants were seated, Kevin, the man who Erhard accused of being stingy, recommending that
he ask his wife about that, walked up onto the platform and handed a piece of paper to Kipp, who
then read it to the group. It was a signed video release form. The participants stood to applaud at
length.
KIPP
That’s exactly what’s going to be required in your lives, to have something beyond what the 
past has given you to happen. What you just saw was an act of something beyond being stingy, 
something beyond what the past has given him. And like Kevin, you’re attached. It doesn’t take 
much to get you deeply rooted in what you are attached to. I think what just struck a chord for 
you was to see someone go beyond what life has given them. That’s what it’s going to take to go 
beyond what life has given you: all day every day. That’s the choice you’re going to have. 
(to Kevin)
Kevin, I appreciate your courage. 
(to the group)
Sharing about the empty and meaninglessness that life is, or the meaning that you made of 
empty and meaningless. 
MARGARET
The only place where empty and meaningless is meaningful, is where it coincides with my 
racket, the only hitch is in there... This morning I called someone I’m engaged to...
KIPP  (interrupting)
That was a quick sentence: “the only place where empty and meaningless means something is 
where it coincides with my racket”—that’s the part you got to get. You see, where your racket 
is, no one dares to tread.
(laughter; to Margaret)
Yes?
MARGARET
My racket is: “I can’t quite have it... I can’t quite have it all.” It’s a joke. It’s such a joke. But I do 
run it with a real verve and panache and other words that go with it. I called a former... well I 
was engaged to marry him for a year and a half...
KIPP
So it’s perfect. Someone who “can’t quite have it all” gets engaged for a year and a half...
(laughter)
And not married.
SPEAKING 
BEING
DAY FOUR
FORUM DAY FOUR: 
SESSION ONE


=== END OF PAGE 325 ===

=== PAGE 326 ===

312
SPEAKING BEING
Being-in-the-World: World
The Forum promises participants a transformed perspective
on their lives, which is to say their Being-in-the-world. Martin 
Heidegger hyphenated this phrase in his writing to indicate that 
the phenomenon must be seen as a whole, as a unitary structure. 
However, he said, its parts could be considered separately for 
emphasis. Previously, in Session One of Day One, we examined 
Being-in, and in Session One of Day Two, Being-with. Here we 
consider Heidegger’s view of world. 
Inside/Outside
In the Cartesian model of reality, the model that for the most part 
determines the way contemporary human beings understand our 
relation to the world, knowledge arises from an encounter between 
subject and object: the “I”—the human subject, the being that 
knows—encounters and comes to know the objects, and thus the 
world. 
Martin Heidegger’s model of human being as Dasein 
challenges this tradition: Dasein and its world do not correspond 
to subject and object (BT 87). Knowledge, in the sense that Dasein
T
knows the world, does not result from a human subject’s coming 
to understand an objective world separate from itself. 
For Heidegger, the assumptions of the Cartesian model were 
problematic. That model presupposes that reality consists of an 
“outer” realm (that which becomes known, Nature, the objective 
world), and a separate “inner” realm of subjectivity that does the
knowing. This inner realm is in some way distinct from the outer 
realm that contains everything else; but it is somehow able to
escape its inner realm so that it can get outside and, well, know.
The problem of inner and outer, and the search for a proof 
of the “Dasein of things outside me,” has concerned philosophy 
since Descartes. But, says Heidegger, if there is such a problem, it 
lies with the question itself.
MARGARET  (continuing to laugh)
h
...and I shared my racket with him and I said “and furthermore, it’s your racket, too!” It was so 
freeing. I mean it was so great to be straight with him. I said “You keep me around. Our sex wasn’t 
that great, so you keep me massaging your racket every now and again. You liked that better 
than me massaging your penis.” I mean I was able to be so straight with him. “You want me to 
massage your case and you didn’t want anything else. And same with me: I have you buy me off  
every once and a while. You buy me wonderful gifts. It’s exactly what we’ve always wanted!”
(laughter)
So that was that on that, and I just noticed...
(more laughter)
And he said, “You mean behind that, I don’t really want a relationship?” and I said, “You 
should move to California to be with me...”
(laughter)
There was no hook to it anymore. But I run it with everybody, that my life isn’t quite right. I 
started dating some great guys about four months ago. Really great guys, but it can’t be that 
great. I’m a runner and hurt my leg, and so I’ve gained a little weight, and so now I’ve got that 
schtick going: I can’t not have a schtick about things not being quite right. It’s disgusting! You 
know, I never have to be responsible for producing at the level of who I am for my job, ever. 
Someone can’t stab into me because they know how much I’ve already sacrifi ced.
KIPP
This is an important part because: some of you are successful and the success keeps the wolves 
off  your back. The results are part of the racket, and that’s why there’s no satisfaction in them. 
The results are there to avoid the domination; they are not results that leave you satisfi ed, no, 
they are there to avoid the responsibility of ever really being responsible. “Don’t touch me, 
because I’m the best you’ve got.”
MARGARET
Right. It’s horrible. Yeah, and I see the only way to do it is to state that I’m full of it, and “You 
can hold me to account, whether I don’t like it, whether I get snarly, hold me to account.” You 
know, my life is brilliant, it works, I’ve got the best life there could be. I really do. And yet I run 
this racket as good as anyone. Better.
(laughter)
And then I noticed, where are the miracles? Well, this morning I went for a run and it was 
eff ortless! I should have been late with all that I did this morning, but I was on time. I stopped 
eating last night when I was full. I even made my deep, profound commitment to ending hun-
ger on the planet into an in-order-to, an in-order-to be liked, to make it, and to sacrifi ce: “oh 
woe is me.” And that’s ridiculous.
KIPP  (applause as Margaret sits
(
)s
Thank you very much.


=== END OF PAGE 326 ===

=== PAGE 327 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
313
ELYSE
I started to feel sick yesterday, and I wondered what was wrong with me that I was sick, and 
I’m not supposed to be sick. I could hardly sit in the room last night. During the break last 
night we went out for dinner, and I thought “I better go lay down for a while, otherwise I’m not 
going to be able to make it, I’m not going to be able to pay attention to what’s happening, I’m 
not going to be able to do it.” And I couldn’t see what I couldn’t be with, and fi nally it struck 
me. What I couldn’t be with is—because I’d been thinking: “what’s my racket?” I thought that 
my racket was that I couldn’t be with how much people loved me because I was afraid that 
people didn’t love me, and I saw that that wasn’t my racket at all. My racket is that I’ve had no 
capacity to be with how much I love people and express that. I’ve said it like a concept, and I 
have to do things in order to express my love for people rather than “be” my love for people. 
And I still feel sick, and I have an incredible life and I can hardly be with that.
KIPP
Well, it makes you wrong. 
MARGARET
Yes, absolutely. It’s amazing. I wake up every morning and I think, “this isn’t my life, this is 
someone else’s life. Somebody’s going to fi nd out about me and they’re going to pull the rug, 
and it’s not going to be there anymore, and it’s all going to be fucked.”
KIPP
Well, it already is.
(laughter)
See, if you recall the conversation we started having last night, the clearing that it is to be a 
human being that you live in: “there’s something wrong.”
MARGARET
There is. Absolutely.
KIPP
Yeah. And it’s not conceptual. You are “there’s something wrong.” You’ve also made that mean 
something. Not only is something wrong, it means something that there’s something wrong. 
MARGARET
It shouldn’t be that way.
KIPP
What else?
The ‘scandal of philosophy’ is not that this 
proof has yet to be given, but that such proofs 
are expected and attempted again and again. 
[. . .] If Dasein is understood correctly, it defies 
such proofs, because, in its Being, it already 
is what subsequent proofs deem necessary to 
demonstrate for it. (BT 249
T
)
“
That is, one always knows the world from the position of already 
being out there in it.
When Dasein directs itself toward something
and grasps it, it does not somehow first get
out of an inner sphere in which it has been
proximally encapsulated, but its primary
kind of Being is such that it is always ‘outside’ 
alongside entities which it encounters and 
s
which belong to a world already discovered.
(BT 89, emphasis added
T
)
“
On the other hand, there is certainly a sense in which we are 
inside:
[E]ven in this ‘being-outside’ alongside
the object, Dasein is still ‘inside,’ if we 
understand this in the correct sense; that is
to say, it is itself ‘inside’ as a Being-in-the-
world which knows. And furthermore, the
perceiving of what is known is not a process 
of returning with one’s booty to the ‘cabinet’ 
of consciousness aft er one has gone out and
grasped it; even in perceiving, retaining, and 
preserving, the Dasein which knows remains
outside, and does so as Dasein. (BT 89
T
)
“
So the inside/outside dilemma is a false problem. Human beings
know their world through existing in it and coping with it.


=== END OF PAGE 327 ===

=== PAGE 328 ===

314
SPEAKING BEING
MARGARET
Well I can see that it doesn’t mean anything and then I woke up this morning and I thought, 
well then I shouldn’t be upset that I didn’t feel good, or that my throat hurts, or that my head 
hurts.
KIPP
This is very good now. This is the giving meaning to no meaning. See “If it doesn’t mean any-
thing, therefore, in order to...”
MARGARET
Or if I really got it, I wouldn’t be sick.
KIPP
Right.
MARGARET
I don’t even know if I’m sick. Truth is, I don’t even know.
KIPP
Right. Well, for sure you’d be some other way than you are.
MARGARET
I’m kind of like backed into a corner. I can’t talk about it, so now I should feel a diff erent way 
than I feel physically. Which is crazy.
KIPP
No it’s not crazy, it’s called normal. This is normal.
MARGARET
I got it.
KIPP
This is what everybody walks around in every day.
MARGARET
And I also see: I’ve designed my entire life to be protected from anyone fi nding out that that’s so 
about me. I’ll produce great, unbelievable results; I’ll create great things around me so that people 
won’t fi nd out. It’s so fucking elaborate! People won’t fi nd out about me that all I’m petrifi ed of is 
that people don’t love me. 
KIPP
You know, I think that we think it’s elaborate. We walk around every day with these signs on 
telling everybody exactly the way it is with us. 
Circumspection
Heidegger also points out that this antecedent understanding 
of the world has a particular quality. The things with which we 
concern ourselves in our everyday world are the things that we 
use in the business of living. Encountered this way, they are the 
material of a phenomenological knowing—a knowing that grows 
l
out of Being (BT 95). This knowing may or may not be explicit in 
T
our awareness:
How do the beings with which we dwell show
themselves to us primarily and for the most
part? Sitting here in the auditorium we do
not in fact apprehend walls—not unless we
are getting bored. Nevertheless, the walls
are already present before we think them as
objects. (BPP 163
P
)
“
Before they are objects for us, the walls are present as a part of 
the equipmental context. In a knowing that arises from Being, I am
not immediately present to the things in my world in the role of 
contemplator, one who seeks to understand and describe them.
Rather I encounter and use them in the business of living:
The nearest things that surround us we call
equipment. There is always already a manifold 
of equipment: equipment for working, for 
traveling, for measuring, and in general things 
with which we have to do. (BPP 163
P
)
“


=== END OF PAGE 328 ===

=== PAGE 329 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
315
MARGARET
That obvious, right?
KIPP
It’s that obvious for everybody, isn’t it, except you walk around like it’s not that obvious. 
MARGARET
Well, for me it’s never lived like that. It’s always been that I’ve had to make sure it was fl awless, 
to cover all the little seams up, so people wouldn’t fi nd out.
KIPP
Wouldn’t fi nd out?
MARGARET
That I was afraid that people wouldn’t love me, and the one I was hiding most from is me, or 
that I love people. It sounds like such a stupid thing to say. That I walked around like I was a 
machine. I’ve been like a machine.
KIPP
What do you mean by that?
MARGARET
Well, like... the easiest way I can say it is I had no right to be. I was always trying to get some-
where or do something.
KIPP
Yeah, but what I’m saying is that’s a little conceptual... I don’t hear you sharing yet.
MARGARET (after a long pause)
Okay. I called my mother. I was very upset with my mother, because I just got married a month 
ago. She didn’t want to come to my wedding.
KIPP
No no. She didn’t want to come to the wedding or she didn’t come to the wedding. 
MARGARET
She didn’t come to the wedding. But I had it that she didn’t want to come to my wedding and it 
meant all these things.
KIPP
It meant?
How do I understand these things? 
The view in which the equipmental contexture 
stands at first, completely unobtrusive 
and unthought, is the view and sight of 
practical circumspection, of our practical 
everyday orientation. “Unthought” means 
that it is not thematically apprehended for 
deliberate thinking about things; instead, 
in circumspection we find our bearings in 
regard to them. Circumspection uncovers and 
understands things primarily as equipment. 
[. . .] We say that an equipmental contexture 
environs us. (BPP 163, emphasis added
P
)
“
I can of course assume a detached role in relation to the world, 
taking on understanding as a science, or an intellectual task to be 
accomplished. But this always happens against the background
of the world I already know from being in it. The background
understanding comes first.
World is not something subsequent that 
we calculate as a result from the sum of all 
beings. The world comes not aft erward but 
beforehand, in the strict sense of the word. 
[. . .] The world as already unveiled in advance 
is such that we do not in fact specifically 
occupy ourselves with it, or apprehend it, but 
instead it is so self-evident, so much a matter 
of course, that we are completely oblivious to 
it. (BPP 165
P
)
“
It is, in a metaphor often employed by Werner Erhard, like water to 
a fish: fundamental to existence, yet unavailable to our purview. 
We see the beings within that purview—they occur as extant, which
for Heidegger means that they occur as substantial things in the
world.


=== END OF PAGE 329 ===

=== PAGE 330 ===

316
SPEAKING BEING
MARGARET
She didn’t love me. “What’s wrong with me that she didn’t want to come to my wedding? How 
could that be?” And you know it was funny because when she fi rst told me—that she wasn’t 
coming to my wedding—it was fi ne. At fi rst I got it, and then I had it mean something.
KIPP
So what it means that your mother wasn’t coming to your wedding is...
MARGARET
She wasn’t coming to my wedding.
KIPP
“My mother’s not coming to my wedding.”
MARGARET
And then I had it mean something.
KIPP
You had it mean what?
MARGARET
First it meant that there was something wrong with me that she wasn’t coming to my wedding. 
If I wasn’t the way I was, she would come to my wedding. There was something wrong with 
me. And then I had it mean that she didn’t love me. 
KIPP
Which means that there’s something wrong with her.
MARGARET
Right. 
KIPP
Everybody know that’s the next step after there’s something wrong with you? There’s some-
thing wrong with them.
MARGARET
And then um, you know, I called her during the couple months before I got married and I 
would talk to her, and I could see that when I started to have that she wasn’t coming to my 
wedding means something, all I could do was talk to her as an in-order-to: in order to get her 
to come to my wedding; in order to get her to love me. I even went from, “if she’s not going to 
come to my wedding, the least she could do was tell me that she loves me.” And it was just... It’s 
funny, because I just called her up, two days ago during a break, and I said to her, “I just called 
But the world itself is of a different order of being. The 
world itself occurs as Dasein does; and Da-Sein, remember, 
is both Being-there and, for Heidegger Being-a-clearing. The 
phenomenon is like nothing we are accustomed to thinking; thus 
Heidegger’s presentation of the situation is provocative: 
The world is not the sum total of extant 
entities. It is, quite generally, not extant at all. 
It is a determination of [B]eing-in-the-world, a 
moment in the structure of the Dasein’s mode 
of being. The world is something Dasein-ish, It 
is not extant like things but it is da, there-here,
like the Dasein, the being-da [das Da-sein]
which we ourselves are: that is to say, it exists. 
(BPP 166
P
)
“
The world, then, may be seen as a clearing where things can occur 
meaningfully. This is also a working definition of human being: 
the clearing in the world for meaning. Both definitions direct us
to a distinction, a distinction that hints at the unspoken realm of 
world. 
World-understanding as Dasein-understanding
is self-understanding. Self and world belong
together in the single entity, the Dasein. Self 
and world are not two beings, like subject and
object, or like I and thou, but self and world
are the basic determination of the Dasein itself 
in the unity of the structure of [B]eing-in-the-
world. (BPP 297
P
)
“
The transformational power of The Forum arises from its evocation 
of that unity. ■


=== END OF PAGE 330 ===

=== PAGE 331 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
317
to let you know that...I just called to say hello.” We just kind of talked. And she told me what 
was going on with her. I told her that our wedding was great and that I got back great pictures 
from the photographer, that I couldn’t wait to show them to her, that I really love her. She said 
to me, well, I said to her that I don’t know how to create a relationship, or how to have a kind 
of relationship that works for you. I keep trying to do something and I haven’t been doing any-
thing that’s really worked. “All I’ve done is fi gured out what was wrong with you or what was 
wrong with me and try to tell you that, and make you do something diff erent.” And she said 
to me, “just be yourself.” You know, it was really remarkable. Because whatever she’s going 
through she’s going through. And my father just died and she told me that, you know, she just 
shared with me a little bit about that...
KIPP
She said?
MARGARET
She said: “It’s tough and I don’t know how I’m going to get over it and what I’m going to do.” 
And I also saw... My mother and my brothers have been saying to me: “You don’t live in the 
same city we do, you can’t have the same kind of relationship we have with each other.” And 
I saw that she’s upset that I don’t live where she lives. I’ve never heard it like that before. So 
we just had a conversation where there was no sting anymore. There was no more me trying 
to get her to do something. It was a conversation where we were actually talking to each other 
instead of me trying to get her to do something. And it’s a beginning. And I also said to her that 
all I was committed to was that she really, you know, have her life work for her. And I had no 
idea what that was going to be and she didn’t either. It was really a beginning, a place to talk 
to each other from. And I saw I wasn’t trying to get her to do something. So however I hung 
up the phone, I was satisfi ed, and however way I’ve been operating never left me satisfi ed in 
talking to her.
KIPP
Anything else?
MARGARET
One of the things I came to The Forum to get is a way of working with the people I work with 
that I don’t live like some special unique human being, but really able to contribute whatever 
distinctions are clear to me to them so that they can get done whatever I can get done. And I 
can see, who I’d have... I have no idea how to do it and actually live like a possibility for me, 
inside my relationship with the people I work with, rather than something I’m supposed to do, 
someway I have to be in order to make it. And how I’ve been... when I couldn’t be with some-
thing I didn’t know how to do, or continuing to stand in the face of not knowing how to deliver 
on all the work that we’ve got, not knowing how to do that. What I do is I use force instead of 
being able to be with whatever’s happening.


=== END OF PAGE 331 ===

=== PAGE 332 ===

318
SPEAKING BEING
Erhard entered at the side of the room, wearing a brown sweater-vest and gray-brown slacks.
He stood in the back, listening, looking around the room, occasionally greeting and touching a 
participant.
KIPP
That’s a big one. See, when you can’t be with what’s happening, what you’re always left with is 
force, no power.
MARGARET
That’s it.
KIPP
Okay. Thank you very much.
(applause)
Clear on the empty and meaninglessness that life is, or the meaning you’ve given to the empty 
and meaningless. One of those two.
JEB
I woke this morning and realized I am the sum total of my likes and dislikes, that’s all I 
am. I am the sum total of my likes and dislikes, no more than that. 
KIPP
Yes, so, if you take a person’s life, and you put all their opinions in a jar, and you stick them in 
the jar with it, that’s their life. What they like and what they don’t like; what they agree with 
and what they don’t agree with; what they think is good, and what they think is bad; what they 
think is right and what they think is wrong. 
ERHARD
Is it possible to get some insight into how stupid that is? The signifi cance with which we have 
given to what we like and don’t like, with what you agree and don’t agree with, with what you 
want and don’t want? Is it possible to get some insight into how trivial and trivializing that is 
to your life? I told you I would tell you about the spiritual exercise. You have to do the spiritual 
exercise at night, because it has to be dark out, and it has to be clear out so that you can see 
the stars. Here in San Francisco that isn’t always easy, but sometimes. Go down to the beach 
at about two or three in the morning when there’s nobody there, and look up at the sky, at the 
stars. When you get over the awe—and we always do, don’t we?—as soon as you get over the 
awe, what you do is you watch the stars very, very, very carefully. You have to watch them very 
carefully. Watch the stars very carefully while you tell the stars your opinions, what you don’t 
like and what you do like, what you agree with and what you don’t agree with, and particularly 
tell them what you want and what you don’t want. If you’ve watched them very carefully, at the 


=== END OF PAGE 332 ===

=== PAGE 333 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
319
end of that exercise, you will be in touch with, you will have a deep insight into the profound 
indiff erence the universe has for your opinion. 
(laughter)
And then you can do something else with your life instead of fi guring out what you agree with 
and what you don’t agree with. That would give you a lot of time, because right now you are 
spending a lot of time fi guring out what you agree with and what you don’t agree with, and what 
you like and what you don’t like, and what you want and what you don’t want. Very important to 
know that the stars won’t move for your opinions. They will not move. They’ll move for some-
thing, but not for your opinion. And you’re pretty stuck with your opinion. You know, with what 
you think is right and what you think is wrong, and which way you think it ought to be done and 
which way you don’t think it ought to be done. You watch the stars carefully, like I said, you will 
have a profound insight into the awesome indiff erence with which the universe holds your opin-
ion. Then you can use your life for something else. The stars will move, but not for your opinion. 
Very good what you said. Thank you for letting me interrupt you. Please go on. 
JEB
It gave me an opportunity to observe myself doing it because it came in the context of empty 
and meaningless, and so I could retrace the steps. Like this: “Life is empty and meaningless. 
Okay I could see the value in that. It gives you the freedom you spoke of, all of those things. I 
can like that idea.” So what I saw happen was, I could incorporate that without challenging the 
structure of my life. I could make that something I like, give it that meaning without upsetting 
the way I do business. 
KIPP
You see what he’s saying? It can be absorbed into the conventional wisdom. It would be an 
extension of what you already knew. If you put this as an extension of what you already know, 
it will be more of what you already know. Very powerful what Jeb is saying. “Oh, yeah, I agree 
that it’s empty and meaningless. And of course, when I don’t agree with it, it won’t be.” See, you 
don’t have any wants. You are your wants. Somebody tries to take your wants away from you, 
you will act like they are trying to take you away from you. Yes?
WALKER 
I got that I am complete with my mother but not with my father. And I began to look at that 
and I saw that I thought that my father owed me something. Who I’d been being with my father 
was that he owed me something. I called him up during the meal break last night, and just 
apologized for being somebody who thought that he owed me something. And he said, “Well 
what is it you thought I owed you.” And I said that I couldn’t even think of it, but that I just 
wanted to apologize for that. He said: “apology accepted.” And that was that, and afterwards I 
began to see that the other side of that is that if who I’ve been being is that he owes me some-
thing... the other side of that is that I’ve been being someone who owes somebody something. I 
have something to complete with you, Werner. In 1974, I couldn’t say it then, but what I got was 
what my life could be about. Everything since then has been about how I could pay you back, 
The Uncanny
Approaching the final stages of writing this book, the authors
also were faced with another “end”: in January of 2015, Bruce 
Hyde, the senior author, was diagnosed with a recurring and
aggressive cancer. A new urgency emerged, as the very existence 
of our project was called into question. The “end” itself was 
addressing us, calling us, summoning forth a whole new clearing 
for partnership and activity, and in that clearing this book in its 
entirety emerged with the senior author free to complete the
remainder of the sidebars and intervals, doing so before he was
unable to participate any longer. 


=== END OF PAGE 333 ===

=== PAGE 334 ===

320
SPEAKING BEING
like in order to pay you back for this gift you’ve given me. And what I got yesterday is that I 
don’t owe you anything. I owe you nothing. And you’ve always told me “you owe me nothing.” 
But I couldn’t quite get that without this piece of it. And now I’m wholly complete with that I 
owe you nothing. And I am complete that I am participating in this work to pay you back for 
something or in order to something...
ERHARD
You can’t give when you owe. Paying back is not a very powerful expression. Giving is a more 
powerful expression than paying back.
WALKER
So we’re even.
ERHARD  (to laughter)
Deal. By the way I didn’t say I owed you nothing. I said I promised you nothing. It’s a
throwaway.
WALKER
In a very real way, who you have been being for me is my father. Like trying to get something 
from you, trying to pay something back to you. So I want to thank you for the opportunity to be 
in The Forum and the opportunity to complete that. 
ERHARD
Thank you.
KIPP
See, participation begins when you have no reason to participate. What you call participation 
has always been in-order-to... That’s not participation. That’s some kind of entanglement. Some 
kind of a deal, strategy, tactic—not participation: Can you even imagine participating for no 
reason?
ERHARD
You can’t imagine anything for no reason. You really can’t imagine anything for no reason. You 
know it sounds like we keep insulting you, like when I told somebody they haven’t lived yet. 
Insulting, right? Except everything in the world for you is in-order-to, and nothing is for itself: 
that’s not to have lived yet. If everything is in-order-to, you’ve never gotten anything for itself, 
you know, the thing itself, as itself. Like another person as that other person; not the other 
person in-order-to. It’s a very diff erent context. Remember what we said about “tall” and the 
context in which “tall” shows up? Other people in-order-to don’t look like other people as them-
selves. Even a tree in-order-to does not look like a tree as a tree. Love in-order-to is not love, it’s 
something else: It’s called love in-order-to. It’s not love. People who only know love in-order-to, 
do not know what love is.
In Being and Time, Heidegger has shed light on this
phenomenon, which has gained special significance given 
our recent encounter with the most implacable of limits. For 
Heidegger, this call reaches Dasein and turns it toward its end, 
toward the possibility of its impossibility, the Nothing. Anxiety 
then is the correlative attunement in which the call is heard—at 
that moment when we find our limit. It is in this attunement that 
Being-in-the-world is disclosed as entirely unrecognizable within 
any familiar rubric. Thus, the call of conscience cannot be said. 
It comes from a strange, unrecognizable domain. The call, when 
heard, is uncanny (Unheimlich). 
What is the Uncanny?
For Heidegger, uncanniness refers to the human relation to death, 
to the possibility of our non-existence, and our tendency to 
flee from an authentic confrontation with Being-towards-
the-end. This tendency to flee is not surprising, given “the 
everyday publicness of the ‘they,’ which brings tranquillized
self-assurance—‘Being-at-home,’ with all its obviousness—into 
the average everydayness of Dasein” (BT 233).
T
In an authentic 
confrontation, for instance, here in Session One of Day Four of 
The Forum, even “as Dasein falls, anxiety brings it back from its 
absorption in the ‘world.’ Everyday familiarity collapses. Dasein 
has been individualized, but individualized as Being-in-the-
world” (BT 233). Everything that had heretofore supported the
T
self-understood existence that constituted our self falls away. 
There is no “you” there, nor is there an “I”; only Being-in-the-
WALKER (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 334 ===

=== PAGE 335 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
321
(to Kipp)
Did you ever get to reasonableness?
KIPP
No.
ERHARD
Were you planning on doing that today?
KIPP
Exactly.
ERHARD
Great. Raphaela?
RAPHAELA
When I was thinking of standing up, I was wanting to participate in-order-to. And life is 
meaningless to me is really... I’m stuck. I want this coaching, I want to accept that, but if it’s 
meaningless to me then what does that mean? I keep going in that circle. 
ERHARD
Yeah, what does it mean that it’s meaningless and empty?
RAPHEAELA
Exactly. But for me to say that, I don’t... I’m still not accepting it. So, so what?
KIPP
You’ve made not accepting it mean something also. You know, like you should accept it.
RAPHAELA
Well, I follow what you’re saying...
KIPP
You mean you can see that accepting and not accepting are both meaningless. They both mean 
the same thing. One means accepting and the other means not accepting. 
RAPHAELA
Yeah. But at the same time I feel my racket coming up saying “I can’t accept that.” 
ERHARD
What’s your racket?
world. “This is it” says Erhard. “You wanted to know how it was
going to turn out. Well this is it. This is how it turned out” (“Heart 
of the Matter”). Inevitably, Being-in-the-world “enters into the 
existential ‘mode’ of the ‘not-at-home’” (BT 233). This sense of not-
at-homeness is what is referred to as the uncanny. 
Over the last several months, as the senior author has
become more open in his thinking, as well as in conversation, 
to his own death as something impending, he has begun 
to experience this uncanniness. And while letting go to this 
confrontation has certainly included a quality of danger—the
discomfort of being on the edge, of jumping off the high diving 
board, of being ungrounded—there has also been an experience 
of great liberation regarding the tendency to flee given by the
“rainstorm” of the “they” self, which “does not permit us the 
courage for anxiety in the face of death” (BT 298). Heidegger 
T
continues:
As falling, everyday Being-towards-death is
a constant fleeing in the face of death. Being-
towards-the-end has the mode of evasion
in the face of it—giving new explanations
for it, understanding it inauthentically, and 
concealing it. Factically one’s own Dasein is 
always dying already; that is to say, it is in a 
Being-towards-its-end. And it hides this Fact 
from itself by recoining “death” as just a “case 
of death” in Others—an everyday occurrence
which, if need be, gives us the assurance still 
more plainly that ‘oneself’ is still ‘living.’  
(BT 298
T
)
“
One might read in Heidegger’s words a degree of disparagement
toward the everyday way of Being-in-the-world endemic to the 
“they” self. Perhaps Heidegger is attempting to lay bare everyday-
ness such that his readers might hear the call of conscience that 
itself brings us to face a profound lack present in the tranquil life 
dictated by the “they”:


=== END OF PAGE 335 ===

=== PAGE 336 ===

322
SPEAKING BEING
RAPHAELA
My racket is that I won’t make a decision. So, to work that racket I make a decision for me and 
I make a decision for everyone else and the decision I’m making is that I can’t accept that. And 
I’m standing up here now because I have been participating “in-order-to,” so it’s not participat-
ing, it’s not sharing: Whatever I say, it’s coming out as in-order-to. 
ERHARD
Like you can’t get out of that, can you? Everything you do is in-order-to; you can’t get out of 
the trap. You try to get out of the trap, it gets you in the trap because trying to get out of the 
trap... you’re doing what you’re doing to get out of the trap. And if you succumb to the trap, 
you’re stuck in the trap. There’s no way out of the trap. It’s called being human. There’s no way 
out of being human. The only thing you’ve got is to accept it; not accept like give in, but accept 
like own, like be responsible for, like embrace. It’s called embracing yourself. You read it in 
books: It’s called loving yourself or accepting yourself. Nobody knows what that means. People 
think “loving yourself” is some zzzzzt thing. No. It’s what we’re talking about in here. We’ve 
kind of got it fl ayed open so you can see it. It’s owning that you’re always in-order-to; that every 
time you operate you’re operating out of your racket; and any attempt to operate with some-
thing other than your racket is another racket. It’s rackets all the way down... to the bottom. 
At the bottom you get to empty and meaningless. That’s not a racket. Empty and meaningless 
is worthless. It’s not good for anything. Empty and meaningless doesn’t make you right and it 
doesn’t make anything wrong, and it doesn’t help you to dominate anything or avoid domination. 
It doesn’t justify anything. And on top of that, all there is, is rackets and in-order-tos. And 
that’s why it doesn’t make any diff erence whether you accept it or not. So you don’t accept that 
it’s empty and meaningless? So what? It’s still empty and meaningless—except that it’s empty 
and meaningless that it’s empty and meaningless. Doesn’t make any diff erence. Still doesn’t 
mean anything that it’s empty and meaningless. And if you did accept it, so what? Still empty 
and meaningless. Doesn’t help when you accept it. Doesn’t go away. Doesn’t get fi xed. Still 
empty and meaningless and it’s still empty and meaningless that it is empty and meaningless. 
You see? Like that. What else?
RAPHAELA
Yesterday when we went through the fear experience...
ERHARD
That wasn’t fear, that was the danger exercise. You all will call it fear. That’s what you call it; 
we call it the danger exercise.
(to Kipp)
Did you call it fear?
KIPP
Absolutely not.
The “they” gives its approval, and aggravates
the temptation to cover up from oneself one’s 
ownmost Being-towards-death. This evasive 
concealment in the face of death dominates
everydayness so stubbornly that, in Being with
one another, the ‘neighbors’ oft en still keep 
talking the ‘dying person’ into the belief that 
he will escape death and soon return to the
tranquillized everydayness of the world of his 
concern. Such ‘solicitude’ is meant to ‘console’
him. [. . .] In this manner the “they” provides 
a constant tranquillization about death. At 
bottom, however, this is a tranquillization not 
only for him who is ‘dying’ but just as much for 
those who ‘console’ him. (BT 297–298
T
)
“
Following the familiar flight away from the nothing, and listening 
away to the “they” self, we might easily conclude that people
don’t die. They pass. Yes, the euphemism is apt; certainly death is 
a passage. At the same time, more openness and authenticity in 
this realm is a worthy goal. Uncanny conversation is not morbid; it 
only reveals that we are in an essential state of lack. We are to our 
core striving to live practice lives designed to allow us to escape, 
designed to relieve us of the anxiety that calls out from the 
Nothing, reminding us that we are thrown to be what we already
and always are, human beings, meaning making machines, an 
existence and facticity—the trap—from which there is no escape 
other than to be in the trap. ■


=== END OF PAGE 336 ===

=== PAGE 337 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
323
(laughter)
ERHARD
Okay good. Raphaela?
RAPHAELA
That’s my story, when we went through the fear process: I found myself angry because all these 
people were acting the way they were and then I saw that I was going through this process of I 
couldn’t be whatever it was I was going to be because I was angry with these people for making 
these really fucking weird noises. Distracting me: “Come on, shut up and let me be who I am,” 
you know.
(laughing)
ERHARD
Why are they laughing? Do you know?
RAPHAELA
It’s really silly. 
ERHARD
And also there’s a certain recognition. People laugh when they recognize themselves in other 
people. Like when you said the king has no clothes, everybody laughed, right? Because they 
saw it all along but nobody had said it.
RAPHAELA
So right now I’m working on trying to understand the not having meaning in my life, because for 
so long it’s been “there has to be a meaning,” “there has to be a purpose,” you know, you do things 
in-order-to. And it’s really hard for me to get off  that because, my story is that’s what my parents 
have taught me. And the real truth is that they raised me, they fed me, and they loved me, but I 
get...
KIPP
The truth is you’re a human being, and that’s what you get with being human. That’s what 
you get when you get here and the party’s over. You get the kind of being that gives everything 
meaning. And what you’re doing is thrashing around inside the trap. Flailing around. Well if it 
doesn’t mean anything, what does that mean? 
RAPHAELA
Well, I now say... I hear that it doesn’t mean anything, so how do I get out of that trap, which is 
a trap in itself?
At 9:45, Wes entered and joined Kipp in this interaction.


=== END OF PAGE 337 ===

=== PAGE 338 ===

324
SPEAKING BEING
WES  (to Raphaela)
Did you ever see Chinese handcuff s? You stick your fi ngers in them. 
RAPHAELA
No.
WES
So imagine this gadget where you put your index fi ngers on either side of it, and then you go to 
pull your fi ngers out. You know what happens?
(to the group)
What happens?
(many answer together: “it tightens up”)
See, that’s your problem! You never stuck your fi ngers in a Chinese handcuff !
(laughter)
So you’re going to have to make this up. You stick your fi ngers in this thing. You pull on it and 
then it tightens. Can you get that?
RAPHAELA
Yeah.
WES
And then you pull on it more and it tightens. And the harder you pull to get your fi ngers out, 
the tighter it gets. Can you get that? That’s what’s happening right now. You are in a giant Chi-
nese handcuff . How do you like it? It’s called your life. 
RAPHAELA
I don’t like it.
WES
Good. That’s the fi rst recognition. If that makes any diff erence.
RAPHAELA
I don’t like to be wrong and for me being in a Chinese handcuff  is being able to be right.
WES
Yeah, it’s not a matter of being wrong. It’s just a matter of it doesn’t work. Not for someone who 
wants to live their life. Either way you’re going to die, so it’s just a conversation right now. But 
someday you’ll be dead and they’ll put on your tombstone: “lived her life fully,” or they’ll put 
there something like “tried to get out of the trap, and died...”


=== END OF PAGE 338 ===

=== PAGE 339 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
325
KIPP
...”in the trap.”
WES
So you want to know how you get out of the trap?
RAPHAELA
Well, I think...
WES
Do you want to know how to get out of the trap?
RAPHAELA
No.
WES
That’s the problem. So you should sit down with the understanding that you don’t want to get 
out of the trap and then that’s at least clear between us. And you won’t complain about it. The 
rest of your life, when you notice it’s not working and it’s trapped and your trapped and things 
are kind of dead, and you’re not getting off  on things, and you’re bitching and moaning about 
complaining about things and the people around you are bitchers and moaners and complain-
ers—all friends—then that’ll be okay with you because you took a stand in The Forum that 
you prefer that.
(long pause)
RAPHAELA
My racket prefers that, I think, because who I am is not...
WES
Do you want to get out of the trap?
RAPHAELA
Yes.
WES
Let me tell you how to get out of the trap. Are you willing to listen?
RAPHAELA
I’m willing to listen.


=== END OF PAGE 339 ===

=== PAGE 340 ===

326
SPEAKING BEING
WES
Great. Stop trying to get out of the trap. That’s how you get out of the trap. You stop trying to 
get out of the trap; just stay in the trap. You accept the trap. Then your relationship to the trap 
transforms. Look: Stay with this because this is important for everybody else. See the fl oor? 
Okay.
(pacing back and forth)
I’m just doing whatever I’m doing right now, right? And in terms of my ability to go through 
reality right now, there’s no problem, right? But there’s a fl oor there, okay? I want you to imag-
ine that I had an argument with the fl oor being there. Okay? I’m going to show you what that’s 
like.
(looking back and forth down at the fl oor)
What the hell is that fl oor doing down there? This is the stupidest fl oor I’ve ever seen. My 
mother doesn’t like this fl oor. I don’t like it. It should be a foot higher. Who was the stupid per-
son who put this fl oor here? They’ve got to change this right now.
(to Raphaela)
You see where I am in relation to this fl oor? I’m stuck with it. I’m in an argument and a com-
plaint about this fl oor. I’m not accepting the fl oor. This fl oor is wrong. Not okay. It ought to be 
diff erent. I should change it. It’s a problem and I’m totally stuck with the stupid fl oor. What it 
takes to transform my relationship with the fl oor is to let it be the fl oor as it is. And then the 
fl oor and I get along perfectly well. And nothing’s changed. The fl oor is still there. So that’s an 
analogy to your relationship to your racket. You know, if you can let your racket be, it’ll give 
you some possibility of being. The way you let your racket be is you realize that it’s empty and 
meaningless. Your racket’s designed to add meaning to everything. It doesn’t mean anything.
RAPHAELA
I got that.
WES
Good. You’re now up to date with The Forum. Congratulations.
After the applause, Kipp called on a participant named Kenneth.
KENNETH
I thought I had a lot of this fi gured out because I took the training. I also thought I had it fi g-
ured out that there’s no meaning because I gave up religion. I’m a native Californian.
(laughter)
I’ve had a lot of attachments to the way things ought to be. My karma is like my religion. I 
didn’t even see that. I thought I was really clear with things. I have a huge trap. I have a savior 
complex. In my line of work I’ve seen a lot of people with savior complexes. That’s my schtick. 


=== END OF PAGE 340 ===

=== PAGE 341 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
327
Probably a lot of people here can identify with that. I’ve noticed a lot of tears. I’ve been identi-
fying and commiserating with a lot of people. What I tell myself is that I’m crying for me. I’m 
very selfi sh. And what I thought I heard Werner say yesterday was “Get off  it.” And that really 
scares me. 
KIPP
What does that mean, it really scares you to get off  it?
KENNETH
Well I just lost my job. I’m about to lose my marriage. I think I just lost the house I was going 
to buy.
KIPP
You mean you got fi red?
KENNETH
Yes.
KIPP
You don’t lose jobs. You lose keys, right?
KENNETH  (laughter)
Right. My story is I got laid off . I really got fi red.
KIPP
Got it. 
KENNETH
It feels good to say that. I’ve got a long history of “poor me” and boy that’s fucking me. 
KIPP
No, it’s poor me-ing you. Poor me is poor me; not poor me is not poor me. They both mean the 
same thing: nothing. 
KENNETH
Yes. I almost got to the point where I can laugh about that.
KIPP
Careful, don’t. It’ll be a shock to your system.
KENNETH
Right. And when I was looking at...


=== END OF PAGE 341 ===

=== PAGE 342 ===

328
SPEAKING BEING
KIPP
You are truly a heavy guy, aren’t you? 
KENNETH
Yes. And I’ve lost a lot of vitality in the last...
There was laughter from the participants, because the absence of vitality was so apparent. 
KIPP 
You’re also a master of understatement. 
KENNETH  (laughing)
And to have a certain façade that really I thought worked.
KIPP
And you have to keep that whole heavy and signifi cant thing in place!
KENNETH
Right. And then to fi nd out it doesn’t mean shit.
KIPP
Right.
KENNETH
Wooo!
KIPP
What it means is being heavy and signifi cant, and whatever else you say, that’s what it means.
KENNETH
Just before dinner last night I got light.
KIPP
Yeah, and it scared the shit out of you. You see it’s risky. See, what you already are is familiar. 
Being scared, sad, upset. That’s what you call “you.” Anything else is unfamiliar. Unfamiliar is 
awkward, embarrassing, so you’ll take anything that’s familiar, even if it’s destroying your life.
KENNETH
Yeah, at dinnertime I felt great, like maybe I could get off  this schtick. I had a real sense there 
of lightness and then I got heavy.


=== END OF PAGE 342 ===

=== PAGE 343 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
329
KIPP
And that’s the way it’s going to be for you. How many of you have noticed things opening up 
and closing, opening up and closing, opening up and closing, opening up and closing? 
(many hands go up)
Put your hands down. Now, how many of you would like it to stay open forever?
(many hands go up)
And that’s what makes you stupid.
KENNETH
Whooo!
KIPP  (loudly)
Because as soon as it opens up you make opening up mean something. That’s the way life 
should be now! 
KENNETH
Yeah, that’s what I did.
KIPP
Yeah, you want an event. You don’t want to live; you want an event.
KENNETH
Yeah. I want a drama around the event.
KIPP
And so you’ll have drama around the event. Everybody wants an event, an easy answer, so they 
don’t ever have to inquire again, or think again... Did you share with people?
KENNETH
Yeah.
KIPP
What happened? Who did you share with?
KENNETH
I shared with several people.
KIPP
What did you share? “I said...”


=== END OF PAGE 343 ===

=== PAGE 344 ===

330
SPEAKING BEING
KENNETH
I shared about losing my job, about poor Kenneth, about why I feel there’s a poor Kenneth 
there. I got relatively clear on that during the training why I have a poor Kenneth thing, what 
that’s doing to my life. I didn’t get to the tears that I’ve been experiencing here. That’s new. 
I didn’t have that in the training. I feel like my life the past two years has been going upside 
down and it’s scaring the shit out of me.
KIPP
No, what happened is, you got laid off , and your marriage is...
KENNETH
My marriage is about to terminate.
KIPP
It’s about to terminate. You sound like it’s a computer turning off . 
(laughter)
KENNETH
Really. Okay.
KIPP
And something about your house.
KENNETH
Right.
KIPP
Anything else?
KENNETH
I have a new relationship.
KIPP
Are you always this excited about that or is this a breakthrough?
(laughter)
KENNETH
That’s great, yeah. Pardon my schtick.


=== END OF PAGE 344 ===

=== PAGE 345 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
331
KIPP
You understand that enthusiasm is a threat to your survival? Joy is a threat to your survival? 
Self-expression is a threat to your survival? I’m not saying any of those are good, or the way 
you should be, and the way you are isn’t the way you should be. I’m not saying that; it’s easy to 
hear that. I’m just saying that you’re locked out of most of life. One’s not better than the other. 
But right now you have no choice. 
KENNETH
It would be nice to have a choice.
KIPP
It would give you freedom to have a choice.
KENNETH
Yeah, which is what I felt for a little bit last night.
KIPP
Yeah, and rigorously speaking, it wasn’t a feeling.
KENNETH
That’s what I saw last night.
KIPP
Yeah. Your feelings are a product of your racket, or the context of whatever you give your feelings to 
occur in. So far your feelings have had the space of your racket.
KENNETH
Yes.
KIPP
Anything else?
KENNETH
Thank you.
(applause as Kenneth sat)
KIPP
Well done!
SARAH
Where do I start? Let me fi nd a place... I got my racket, and saw, last night, the terror of it.


=== END OF PAGE 345 ===

=== PAGE 346 ===

332
SPEAKING BEING
KIPP
Of what?
SARAH
My racket is “I’m an incompetent parent.” And as the people I had dinner with me last night 
would tell you, you get anywhere close to that and like, it’s survival, this is war. It’s like, you 
know...
KIPP
What are you talking about? What’s war? What’s survival?
SARAH
It’s like I... my racket is “I’m an incompetent parent.”
KIPP
You’re an incompetent parent.
SARAH
Right.
KIPP
And if somebody says...
SARAH
And if somebody even gets even pretty close to that...
KIPP
And questions you as a parent?
SARAH
They don’t even have to get that close. You know...
KIPP
Okay.
SARAH
So, last night, um, I was looking at some other always...already always beings, and I saw them 
as, you know, there was no meaning there for them. I looked at my past. I’m from the South, 
and I looked at some of these southern things we have; and I really got it: You can jump into 
that game, or you don’t, you know, it’s there. And I looked at my “I’m an incompetent par-
ent” and the terror, and I really felt the terror, and I couldn’t get to no meaning, to empty and 
meaningless. I couldn’t get it; I had that terror all night long. And I understood the person who 
stood up and said “when I was a little kid I was embarrassed, and I’m never embarrassed.” He’s 
The Call of Conscience
As we have shown, for both Martin Heidegger and Werner Erhard, 
the current experience of human being is fundamentally missing 
something. Heidegger located the source of this absence in the 
assumptions of the metaphysical tradition, whose understanding 
of the world does not include the background realm that he calls 
Being. At this point in development of that tradition, that anything 
is missing has also been forgotten; and beyond the next forgotten-
ness is oblivion (see the last sidebar of Session Three of Day 
Four). “Being,” says Heidegger, “is still waiting for the time when 
it will become thought-provoking to man” (“LH” in BW 227). Thus 
W
a central task of The Forum is to make present this deficiency in 
such a way that it transforms into a new possibility for Being.
However, human beings, when listening away to the “they” 
self, avoid confronting any deficiency by embracing distraction, 
losing themselves in the ways of the world into which they have
been thrown. The Self of Dasein, remember, is a way of existing,
and the way we exist is to fall into the arms of the possibilities we 
find open to us—the arms of the “they,” a world of curiosity, idle 
chatter, and ambiguity, which constitute the groundless public 
discourse that is always right, and for whom nothing is new. But 
in thus falling, we remain lost, wherein “Dasein makes no choices, 
gets carried along by the nobody [the “they” self, or as Erhard 
sometimes calls it, the “anybody” self] and thus ensnares itself in


=== END OF PAGE 346 ===

=== PAGE 347 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
333
got, maybe, the terror there. And the terror was there. I couldn’t get out of it. I have a beautiful 
concept of it. And I can tell you metaphors about it, but it was there. I got up this morning, and 
it’s like... my son came in and he sits down on the bed. He said “Mom, tell me about this thing 
you’re doing.” Before I tell you that, let me tell you a little bit about my son. He spent fi ve years 
in a mental hospital. He’s thirteen now. And I said “Well, we’re talking about how we are as 
human beings. And we’ve been talking about how we have these things that exist for us from 
when we were really little, and he said “You mean those things we know from the time we 
were born?” Shit. 
(laughter)
So I say “Yeah.” So anyway, and we go on and we’re talking, and he’s following me, and I say 
“Yeah, I’ve been looking at the way I am, and this thing I’ve got about being an incompetent 
parent, and the terror I have with it. And he says, “Mom, you’re an incompetent parent,” and 
then he laughed—
(she demonstrates the laughter)
“Mom, we’re related!”
(applause)
And I’m blown away, laughing and crying at the same time, really, and he’s standing there and 
says “Mom, I don’t understand you’re laughing and crying, but don’t look, I’m crying.” It was 
like... Later on in the morning he was sitting on the bed and terrorizing the cat. So I says “now 
what would you do if somebody came in and was terrorizing the cat the way you’re terrorizing 
the cat?” “Well I would shoot ’em.” And I said, “I just don’t know what to do about it.” And he 
says “well you’re an incompetent parent!”
(laughter)
I said “I got it. If I were terrorizing the cat, what would you do?” And he said “I’d tell you to 
stop it.” And I said “Well, stop terrorizing the cat.” And he did. 
KIPP
A lot of work.
SARAH
Yeah.
KIPP
It’s been this drama. And this tragedy, and how to work it out, and what to do...
SARAH
“How do I do it to you to make you stop terrorizing the cat?”
KIPP
Yeah, building a strategy and looking for the options.
inauthenticity” (BT 312). Such a life may be easy, interesting, and
T
pleasant; but it is never one’s own.
And yet: since this is the only mode of existence we have
experienced, how could we know that any other mode is
available? What is needed is a hint, a prod, a direction: “In terms 
of its possibility,” says Heidegger, “Dasein
y
is already a potentiality-
for-Being-its-Self, but it needs to have this possibility attested” 
(BT 313, emphasis added). For this purpose, we are introduced
T
here to an old friend whom we have undoubtedly encountered 
before:
[Because] Dasein is lost in the “they,” it must
first find itself. In order to find itself at all, 
it must be ‘shown’ to itself in its possible 
authenticity. . . .this potentiality [-for-Being-
its-Self] is attested by that which, in Dasein’s 
everyday interpretation of itself, is familiar 
to us as the “voice of conscience” [Stimme des
Gewissens]. (BT 313
T
)
“
But precisely because the conscience is such a familiar 
element of our moral/psychological/theological mythology—one 
that has been assessed, disputed, and interpreted in manifold
ways—it is likely to occur here as a tired concept reduced to
ambiguity in the idle talk of the “they.” So Heidegger emphasizes 
that he is positing the voice of conscience as an existential
phenomenon. That is, like our attunements, which cannot be
ascertained without being inhabited, the voice of conscience
is there, waiting to happen, and so is only heard when Dasein, 
attuned in anxiety, wants a conscience. Thus, it is never factual, 
only factical.
As a phenomenon of Dasein, conscience is not
just a fact which occurs and is occasionally 
present-at-hand. It ‘is’ only in Dasein’s kind of 
Being, and makes itself known as a Fact only 
with factical existence and in it. (BT 313
T
)
“


=== END OF PAGE 347 ===

=== PAGE 348 ===

334
SPEAKING BEING
SARAH
Yeah, well that was it and it was like, it’s “I’m an incompetent parent.”
WES
Someone is willing to say what’s so, rather than give a reason for it or try to explain what it all 
means, deal with the signifi cance of it...
SARAH
And it was real clear to him, “you’re still my mother. You’re my mother!” He said that! And 
in all the discussing about The Forum with people in my life it never occurred to me to talk 
to him.
WES
Yeah, it only occurred to you to talk to yourself. 
SARAH
Oh, I love that one. 
(laughter)
Yeah, he talked to me. He got up early to come talk to me. I left him—maybe I shouldn’t say 
this—we were out of kitty litter. The cat pooped on the carpet and I told him to clean it up and 
go buy more kitty litter. It’s not like I have to do it for him. Yeah.
(applause)
KIPP
Thank you Sarah.
WES  (to the group)
Your whole life has been lived inside of meanings, explanations, reasons, and justifi cations. 
The lowest level in which human beings can live their life... I’m now going to give you a name 
for that. You’re at a place where you can begin to recognize it. Before you were too much in it to 
be able to recognize it. You know, like the fi sh cannot recognize water. The fi sh cannot discern 
water; it’s everywhere. You’re like a fl ying fi sh, for the moment. You jumped out of the water, 
and you looked back to see the water. And when you discern the water, you can take that back 
into the water: That’s possible. It’s an analogy for what is occurring in the room: When you get 
stuck with anything, it sheds a little light on it. So when you jump out of the water and you see 
the water that human beings swim their life in, that water is called reasonableness. 
(pausing)
The reasons for people are more important than the results in their life. Human beings care 
more about reasons than they do about results. And when you ask people about what hap-
pened and why it happened and how come, you get drawn into a conversation for all your rea-
sons. People trade in reasons. They pretend to care about results, but all they really care about 
The call is not something that occurs from time to time in such 
a way that lends itself to inductive empirical study, for “the Fact
of conscience cannot present itself at all” (BT 314). Rather than
T
search for empirical instances, to encounter the call, to “hear” 
it, requires before all else a transformation in the listener, a shift 
from listening away to the “they” to a listening that is altogether 
different.
Dasein fails to hear itself, and listens away 
to the “they”; and this listening-away gets 
broken by the call if that call, in accordance
with its character as such, arouses another 
kind of hearing, which, in relationship to 
the hearing that is lost, has a character in
every way opposite. If in this lost hearing, 
one has been fascinated with the ‘hubbub’
of the manifold ambiguity which idle talk
possesses in its everyday “newness”, then the
call must do its calling without any hubbub
and unambiguously, leaving no foothold for 
curiosity. That which, by calling in this manner,
gives us to understand, is the conscience.
(BT 316
T
)
“
First Dasein must find itself as having failed to hear 
itself, which refers to the dominant self-reflexive trope of The
Forum: being authentic about one’s own inauthenticity, which 
necessitates finding oneself to be inauthentic, that is, to be living 
a life not one’s own, all the while pretending one is. This finding 
of oneself as inauthentic is the lack that the conscience reveals,
the charge of “Guilty!” which the voice of conscience calls Dasein
to own up to. “To be” means to be falling, to have lost touch with 
Being because Being loves to hide. We are left with words that 
become dead, as mere transparent husks. But how can we get 
those husks to come forward and speak Being? ■


=== END OF PAGE 348 ===

=== PAGE 349 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
335
is reasons. “Well I really tried to produce that result. And you know I tried this and I did that, 
and this happened and this happened.” “Oh, I understand: Well, as long as you really tried; 
as long as you really meant it; you really were sincere.” “I understand” often means, “Okay, 
I’ll give you that one as long as you put up with my bullshit for not producing the result I said 
I would produce. You’ll accept that then, too, right?” See you’re either at The Forum on time 
or you’re not. You’re either on the airplane when it leaves or you’re not. The airplane does not 
care about the traffi  c jam you got into. It just leaves, and you stand there like a jerk watching 
it leave, complaining about the unfairness of life. You either keep your word or you don’t, with 
regard to life. Life is not fair. Children think life should be fair. Some people—most peo-
ple—never grow out of that, and they argue about the fairness or unfairness of life, and their 
reasons for what they have done and why they did it, and why it should have been this way, 
and their story, and it’s all stuck together; and people are asleep, and what keeps them asleep 
is reasonableness. And by the way, it is very real when you’re discussing it. The basis for your 
reasonableness ultimately is your commitment to your story. But the level of living your life 
we’re discussing now is called reasonableness, and it stinks. You know, like, we invite you to 
participate in something and you will deal with “why are we doing that?” and “should I be do-
ing that?” and “how come we’re doing that?” and “what’s really happening?” And you’ll never 
deal with the off er and the possibility of the off er. So one way to listen to Sarah’s sharing is: 
Somebody who’s willing to give up reasons in her relationship with her son, and relate to him, 
like straight, like “here’s what I say and I’ll take what you say and out of what we say to each 
other, we’ll be committed to it as itself and not deal with all the story about it that’s not being 
communicated.” So, she can acknowledge being an incompetent parent, which by the way 
is only a conversation anyway—which I know you know—but it opens something up. That 
conversation opens something up. She doesn’t have to explain it, and justify it, and make her 
son wrong, like he’s the reason for her incompetence. He doesn’t have to deal with her reasons. 
He can just deal with her self, and they can deal with each other. See: That’s a breakthrough. 
That’s what’s possible in terms of participating in life when you can step out of your story, and 
let the fl oor be there, let life be there, let your self be there, embrace it, and play with it. But you 
have to give something up. You have to give up your signifi cance and your commitment to rea-
sonableness. You need to know what it looks like, really. What you look like—your story, and 
your reasons for it, and the justifi cations for it—really are absurd. Time for another newspaper 
article. I’m going to show you what a life looks like, carried to the extreme, when someone’s 
commited to some meaning, some signifi cance, some reasons and justifi cations for their life. 
Here Wes read a newspaper article which demonstrated reasonableness carried to an extreme. It
was the obituary, from the Los Angeles Times, of the musician Billy Tipton, who had died earlier in 
1989. It was headed “Death reveals musician who lived as man to be woman.” At her death at the
age of 74, it was revealed to friends and family that Tipton, who had lived as a man, had been in
reality a woman. Tipton died poor, said Wes, and tired of keeping her secret.
WES
There you go. Aren’t you tired? Of keeping the secret? Think it’s worth giving the secret up? 
You think it’s worth giving up what you’ve been withholding from life? You know what you’ve 
been withholding from life? Your self. What you’ve been giving to life is your secret; what 


=== END OF PAGE 349 ===

=== PAGE 350 ===

336
SPEAKING BEING
you’ve been withholding from life is your self. And you put the two together and you look at life 
from the possibility that you’re going to die: What’s the point? I mean really, what is the point? 
Why not just give it up? Where’s Kevin? I wasn’t in the room earlier. I hear you turned in your 
video release today. Congratulations. That’s giving something up. I invited you last night to 
confront what it costs, the risk... you want to share about that?
KEVIN
Kind of funny, because after I got my standing ovation from everyone, I sat here thinking, “I 
don’t want to put my hand up, because I’ve already received too much attention. So I’ll just sit 
here.” And it took me about, I don’t know, a half an hour before I fi nally realized “I could put 
my hand up and they could choose me whenever they wanted. I wasn’t in control...”
(laughter)
WES
That’s very good. 
KEVIN
Yeah, I got a lot...
WES
Wait, let me just use that, because a number of people have been coming up to me demanding 
I call on them to share. You ought to get what Kevin is saying. You either will or you won’t and 
you’ll know it at the end of The Forum if you’ve been called on. Don’t worry about it because it 
doesn’t mean anything anyway. 
KEVIN
And you’re not going to get any more out of it if you’re called on.
WES
You want to listen. That’s when you get something out of The Forum. The Forum takes place in 
your listening.
KEVIN
And I know that because as I was sitting here, I was thinking about that, “well, it doesn’t mat-
ter if I get called on, if I get called on, that’s fi ne, I get called on.” 
ERHARD
It’s not even fi ne. You get called on, you get called on.
KEVIN
You’re right.
WES (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 350 ===

=== PAGE 351 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
337
ERHARD
And if you don’t get called on, you don’t get called on.
KEVIN
You’re right.
ERHARD
And that’s the way that it is. And you could make a great big drama out of that. “Wes doesn’t 
like me. Kipp doesn’t like me even more. Nobody likes me. They’re trying to torture me. I really 
got something to say that’s important. I gotta get up here, nah nah nah nah nah nah nah nah 
nah nah.” Very good Kevin. Go on.
KEVIN
I was like that. Is it okay if I say something to somebody else in the group?
ERHARD
Not usually. But in your case we’ll make an exception. Go ahead. 
(laughter)
I appreciate your asking.
KEVIN
Well I’d like to talk to someone in the group but I’m not quite sure how to handle it, but I’ll 
count on you to stop me if I get out of line. I heard myself, as I told you before, I had every-
body’s racket so maybe I’m a good person to talk to everybody because I’ve got everybody’s 
racket. But maybe everybody here has everybody’s racket... But there was a young person last 
night that really got to me because I saw myself in that young person, maybe twenty, thirty 
years ago, and I really wish I could talk to that young person but I don’t think I’ll be able to talk 
to that young person because I got a feeling that that young person probably isn’t listening to 
me right now.
WES
Actually I think they are. I think everybody is. I don’t believe what you... I don’t accept what 
you’re saying. So let me tell you what you are saying: The future needs to be just like the past; 
nobody can learn from anything. Everybody has to go through the same mistakes. It’s bullshit. 
Something’s happening in the room in the conversation where the person twenty years young-
er than you, Kevin, is getting you. And the benefi t of the twenty years you screwed your life up.
KEVIN
I’m sorry, but I think that’s completely wrong, because I think that person’s sitting there 
thinking “I can’t possibly learn anything from this old fart,” and...


=== END OF PAGE 351 ===

=== PAGE 352 ===

338
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
They do say that but it doesn’t make any diff erence anyhow. 
(applause)
And let me tell you what they learn from you, Kevin. Young people don’t learn from our 
preaching. They learn from who we are. You know, you can’t miss your magnanimity. You 
cannot miss it; it can’t be missed. 
KEVIN
My magnanimity?
ERHARD
Yes, your magnanimity. 
KEVIN
I’ll have to work on that a little later. If I can get that together with my stinginess, that’s gonna 
take a lot of work. 
ERHARD
Remember one thing. Stinginess is not a quality inside you. It’s a product of your actions. And 
magnanimity is the same thing. You give yourself being big when you get off  it. When you’re 
being moved in here by other people’s sharing, you can’t help it. I suppose you might be able 
to do it, but it would be very diffi  cult to be in here and not be moved by people. And what 
moves us is not their story. That may entertain us but it isn’t what moves us. What moves us 
is their magnanimity. Magnanimity arises in action, like the act of getting off  it. That’s real 
magnanimity. We don’t have a good way of talking about it because I have to say “you have to 
be big,” and it sounds like some quality inside. There are no qualities inside people. Qualities 
arise in action. And yes, yesterday you were being stingy, and you’re a bit thrown to being 
stingy, and what you said last night gave you a possibility beyond being stingy. You know, you 
bit the bullet. You spoke straight. And anytime somebody bites the bullet and talks straight 
a possibility beyond their inauthenticity arises. And you gave yourself a new possibility last 
night. You want to listen up because I’m putting this in words that you might fi nd a bit hard 
to, you know, a bit hard to deal with. 
KEVIN
I’m dealing with them.
ERHARD
Okay very good. So, last night in speaking straight and speaking yourself and being authentic 
about your inauthenticity, you created a possibility beyond your inauthenticity, and today you 
acted in that possibility...
And what moves us is not their story. That may
entertain us but it isn’t what moves us. What 
moves us is their magnanimity. Magnanimity
arises in action, like the act of getting off  it.
“


=== END OF PAGE 352 ===

=== PAGE 353 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
339
(referring to the video form)
and in that action there was magnanimity. There was being big. And it’s extraordinarily attrac-
tive. I mean extraordinarily attractive, and I don’t mean it looks good, Kevin.
KEVIN
No. The nice thing about it is that I don’t even need it now. 
ERHARD
Exactly.
KEVIN
Now that I got it I don’t need it.
ERHARD
Now, let’s get that one last thing straight for everybody. That’s right. Nobody pays any attention 
to your opinion. Nobody pays any attention to your expression of what you agree or disagree 
with. Particularly young people don’t pay much attention to it. They’re organized not to pay any 
attention to it. They need not to pay any attention to it. They’re struggling to establish them-
selves. And they cannot get away from the message delivered by who you are. That makes a 
diff erence for them no matter what their stance in the matter is. Okay, please go on.
KEVIN
Well this person I saw as me twenty or thirty years ago. I don’t even know how many charac-
teristics of this person I want to describe... but there was a lot of defi ance in the statement that 
was made. 
ERHARD
Defi ance?
KEVIN
Defi ance, defying you. And when I fi rst came here I still had some of that defi ance. I’m sure 
that...
(laughing)
I know why they’re laughing.
ERHARD
And the smile on your face is an expression of being able to be with their laughing, which is a 
lot more powerful than being insulted by it or wondering why they are laughing.
KEVIN
So I think I probably had a pretty good need to take you on. And I probably wouldn’t have 
taken you on because I understand how stupid it is to take you on, even if I wanted to take you 


=== END OF PAGE 353 ===

=== PAGE 354 ===

340
SPEAKING BEING
on, because I’m playing on your fi eld and you’re going to win. There’s no question about that, 
even if I’m as good as you are. By last night I didn’t have the need to take you on anymore. I 
didn’t care if I took you on. And I didn’t care if I won. And I didn’t care if I lost if I took you on. 
It didn’t make any diff erence. So that was really good. So, back to the young person I am trying 
to get to. I don’t know why: There’s some reason I’m trying to get to this person and I don’t 
understand what that is. Somebody came up to me last night after I fi nished and said that must 
have really been hard to do. Last night was not hard to do. Today is hard to do. 
ERHARD
Stingy is easy. Magnanimous is not easy.
KEVIN
So, to this person, I came in here and I’m a person who has spent their whole life—I’m 56 years 
old—I spent my whole life, I don’t think, ever trying to look into my head, until just recently, 
and so I’m new at this game. I’m not a head looker. I’ve been busy being successful and all that 
and so I’m looking at this young person. Not a real young person. Just getting a little beyond 
young, but really defi ant, really pissed off  about something. I wanted to say to that person “Hey 
look boy, I’m the biggest case of all,” which I’m sure a lot of you are saying “No, I am.” But I 
know I am the biggest case of all, that came into here thinking  “Boy, I’m going to have to put 
up with a lot of bullshit,” but I think there must be something to this thing, and I’m clever 
enough that I can get around the bullshit, and sort that out, do it my way and control it, and fi g-
ure out whether there was really anything good in this and I’ll extract out what I think is good 
in this and I’ll let the bullshit slide by my ear. And the reason that I think I’m able to get some-
thing out of this: I’m lucky I guess. I came into this, well, the only way I can get something out 
of this is if I just really say “okay, push those thoughts out of your mind, and get something out 
of this. I’m gonna get something out of this. I’m going to get into this.” And I’ve really gotten 
into it, and last night was a hell of a night, because I went to bed and it was a long time before I 
went to sleep, thinking. My head was exploding going through all these things, my assignment 
and everything else, and boy, did I make progress. I’m not sure... Something happened, I’ve 
had so many breakthroughs...
Let’s get clear. It’s not progress, it’s dropping stuff .
KEVIN
I’ve dropped a load they must have heard...
(laughter)
At least four or fi ve fl oors down.
ERHARD
That’s generous Kevin. That’s generous. That’s generosity. Sharing “winning” is generosity.
KEVIN (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 354 ===

=== PAGE 355 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
341
KEVIN
So to this young person who doesn’t have much time left to get something out of this Forum.
ERHARD
Never mind the editorial.
KEVIN
This person is looking forward to really getting the job done at the next event, because this 
person’s talking about the next event, where this person’s going to get the job done. And I don’t 
think this person’s going to get the job done in the next event unless they start right now get-
ting the job done at this event. That’s what I have to say.
(applause)
WES
Kevin, I appreciate your generosity, so I’m gonna share a poem with you. 
Here Wes read the e e cummings poem, “What gets you is nothing.”
WES (completing the poem)
So you’ve been gotten, and what got you is nothing. It is inescapable. What there is to be gotten 
by—to be used by—in The Forum is nothing. If that now sounds like possibility to you, if now 
you hear that communication as possibility—you don’t understand it...
KEVIN
I feel like I understand it.
WES
Maybe you do. I’m saying, even if you don’t. If it just has that sense of possibility to it, raise 
your hand. 
(most of the participants raising their hands)
How many don’t?
(a few raising their hands) 
Okay. So are you complete Kevin?
KEVIN
No. I still have my homework assignment. 
WES
Those who don’t: Your job is to transform the conversation we’re having now, somehow, into 
possibility. You notice that a lot of people in the room have done that. That’s your job now. 
Your job. That’s where the value of your money occurs.


=== END OF PAGE 355 ===

=== PAGE 356 ===

342
SPEAKING BEING
KEVIN (almost crying now)
I did my assignment; I almost didn’t do it. I called my wife this morning. I had forgotten that I 
was supposed to ask her if I was selfi sh. So I asked her if I’m selfi sh. Her fi rst response was to 
laugh.
(laughter)
It wasn’t a big laugh.
(bigger laughter)
I really mean that, I wasn’t trying to be cute I don’t think. But it was a genuine laugh. And I 
wasn’t quite sure what that was going to be followed by. And she paused for a minute and was 
thinking. And then she said, “Well, you do have to have control.” And so I was sitting there 
dealing with that. And then she said “But you’ve got a lot of good qualities to off set it.” I’m not 
trying not to cry. I don’t know what I’m trying to do. I’ve certainly never cried in front of a 
group like this. 
Let me tell you something. Anytime you actually meet yourself, it’ll move you to tears.
KEVIN
Well I’m not worried about crying. In some respects I wish I could cry.
ERHARD
That’s close enough. What you’re doing is fi ne.
KEVIN
So I told her I loved her and she told me she loved me and that was the end. I’m complete. 
Thanks.
ERHARD
Good.
(long applause)
WES
Just because we’re committed to you, we’re going to give those of you who raised your hand, 
those of you who didn’t get possibility yet, we’re going to give you one more shot at waking the 
fuck up. 
(laughter)
ERHARD  (lightly)
No scatological language, Wes, please.
What is Said When Conscience Calls?
The call of conscience is a calling to listen past the hubbub and 
to be brought back to one’s Self, but the “they” is not entirely 
circumvented; one cannot leap over what it means to be human. 
Rather, the “they” self plays an essential role: 
But the fact that the call passes over both the
r
“they” and the manner in which Dasein has
been publicly interpreted, does not by any
means signify that the “they” is not reached 
too. Precisely in passing over the “they” (keen 
r
as it is for public repute) the call pushes it into 
insignificance. But the Self, which the appeal 
has robbed of this lodgment and hiding-place,
gets brought to itself by the call. (BT 317
T
)
“


=== END OF PAGE 356 ===

=== PAGE 357 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
343
Kipp asked those who did not see possibility in empty and meaningless to stand. About fi fteen peo-
ple stood; one of them received a microphone.
WES
There’s just one last little piece stuck to it, a little piece of meaning stuck to it keeps possibility 
from occurring.
Kipp confi rmed with those standing that they are yet to be “clear” about life being empty and 
meaningless and that it is empty and meaningless that it’s empty and meaningless.
ERHARD
Hold on. Is it that you don’t get it or you don’t like it? Which is it with you? 
ANABETH
I don’t see either. I thought the question was: “do we see possibility?”
ERHARD
We’re restating the question. The question is: Did you get that it is empty and meaningless, and 
that it’s empty and meaningless that it’s empty and meaningless? Did you get that?
ANABETH
Yes. 
ERHARD
Good, then we apologize for misleading you. You’re welcome to sit down now. 
(several participants sitting down)
The only people who should be standing are those who didn’t get that it’s empty and meaning-
less and that it’s empty and meaningless that it’s empty and meaningless. So that’s what you 
didn’t get.
BRADLEY
I don’t think so.
ERHARD
Who should I ask?
(to a seated participant)
Did he get that?
(laughter)
Should I ask him? Who should I ask?
In the language of The Forum, the concern for looking good and
being right, inauthentic to the core, gets revealed as empty, as 
lacking any ultimate ground, as utterly without meaning. That is, 
the “they” self is not some inner self enclosed within the frame
of the external world; rather, it “is” only by virtue of Being-in-the-
world.
But if conscience occurs as a call, as a summons that passes
over the “they” self, what form does it take? What is said in the
call? The call is not vocal utterance; nevertheless, as calling, it is a 
mode of discourse:
But how are we to determine what is said in 
the talk that belongs to this kind of discourse?
k
What does the conscience call to him to whom 
t
it appeals? Taken strictly, nothing. The call 
asserts nothing, gives no information about 
world-events, has nothing to tell. Least of 
all does it try to set going a ‘soliloquy’ in the 
Self to which it has appealed. ‘Nothing’ gets 
called to this Self, but it has been summoned to
d
itself—that is, to its ownmost potentiality-for-
Being. (BT 318
T
)
“
The call of conscience, says Heidegger, is discourse in the mode
of silence, and its message is unequivocal: it says nothing: the
call speaks through what is left unsaid. Any misunderstanding
of this message is due not to its mis-calling, but to interference
from the soliloquy through which the “they” self (i.e., the socially 
constructed identity) interprets the call (BT 318–19). Thus the 
T
“nothing,” revealed in anxiety through the call of conscience,
holds the possibility of authentic self-revelation. 
Throughout Heidegger’s thought we find the essentiality 
of non-Being as the other side of Being; and Heidegger takes 
full advantage of the rhetorical possibilities of the nothing,
recognizing the opportunities for paradox and reflexion which 
arise in discussing a “something” which is “nothing.” We mean 
“rhetorical” in two related senses. The first is its essential sense 
as the use of language for the primal assignment of meaning as


=== END OF PAGE 357 ===

=== PAGE 358 ===

344
SPEAKING BEING
BRADLEY
Me.
ERHARD
Did you get that?
BRADLEY
No, I’m still attaching meaning to it.
ERHARD
I’m not asking whether you are attaching meaning or not attaching meaning. You’re always 
going to attach meaning.
BRADLEY
I will?
ERHARD
You are a machine that attaches meaning. As long as you’re functioning you will attach mean-
ing. However, it’s possible to attach meaning in the context that it’s empty and meaningless. It’s 
possible to get that it’s empty and meaningless and attach meaning to it. See, this is not a con-
versation for convincing you of something. This is a conversation for leaving you dwelling in 
the truth. Dwelling in the truth, you can’t use the truth. So the question is, did you get—and by 
“get” I mean: “dwelling in” that it’s empty and meaningless? By “get” I mean: Are you “coming 
from” that it’s empty and meaningless? Not: Are you attaching meaning to things?
BRADLEY
Yes.
ERHARD
Then you are welcome to sit down.
(addressing Jacob, standing)
You didn’t get it, right? You got it partly and partly you didn’t get it? 
JACOB
Well I understand that, um, that a lot of times we try to take things for more than their face 
value, which is what happened, and add a stupid story to it and try to give it meaning. But I was 
wondering about your wording. When you say that it’s empty, is that where potential comes 
from, or possibility?
ERHARD
Is that where what?
primordial metaphor (see the sidebar “Primordial Metaphor” 
in the Second Session of Day Four)—or, in this case, the radical
undermining of meaning, since to bring Being (originative 
meaning) to language we must also bring nothing to language,
and not merely ontically: the ontological saying of the nothing is 
primal rhetoric. 
The second sense of “rhetoric” is closer to the Aristotelian 
tradition: that is, Heidegger, and especially Erhard, use the 
language of nothing strategically, exploiting its paradoxical
y
possibilities to reorient the audience by revealing to that audience
its true relation to nothing and thus to Being. ■


=== END OF PAGE 358 ===

=== PAGE 359 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
345
JACOB
Is that where possibility comes from, being empty?
ERHARD
It may or may not, but, in my answering you in the context in which you are asking me, that 
isn’t going to make any diff erence for you, because you’re asking me in order to understand. 
If you do this exercise... the way we know you did the exercise is because possibility arises. 
Now I didn’t ask that question yet, we’re going to ask that question in a little while because we 
need to get this other thing fl at fi rst. What we want to get fl at is not did you fi gure this out, and 
does it fi t with everything you know. But rather, did you get that life is empty and meaningless 
and it’s empty and meaningless that it’s empty and meaningless? It has no inherent meaning, 
no inherent signifi cance. Life is like a rainstorm. It does not rain in order to water the little 
fl owers. It just fucking rains and life is like that. Life is just like it is. Life is just that way. It’s 
not that way for a reason. It’s just that way. It’s just the way it is, and it’s just devoid of meaning 
and signifi cance, except to the degree that you bring some meaning and signifi cance to it. And 
the meaning and signifi cance that people bring to it does what you saw in here over the last 
three days. So that’s what there is to get. What there is to get is that life is empty and meaning-
less and it’s empty and meaningless that it’s empty and meaningless. That is to say, it’s not only 
empty and meaningless but you can’t make something out of that without getting into trouble. 
Is that clear?
JACOB
Yeah. But...
ERHARD
You’re going to screw it up trying to make up a conclusion out of it.
JACOB
Yeah I am.
ERHARD
Don’t do that. Stop that.
JACOB
Okay.
(applause)
ERHARD
It’s very important what Jacob just illustrated for you. I heard you say it goes in and out and in 
and out and in and out. It goes in and out and in and out because you try to make a conclusion. 
I told you the truth has no use. It’s use-less. Worth-less. What is “worth”? Worth is what makes 
Life is like a rainstorm. It does not rain in order 
to water the little flowers. It just fucking rains 
and life is like that. Life is just like it is. Life is 
just that way. It’s not that way for a reason.
It’s just that way. It’s just the way it is, and it’s 
just devoid of meaning and significance, except 
to the degree that you bring some meaning 
and significance to it. And the meaning and
significance that people bring to it does what 
you saw in here over the last three days.
“


=== END OF PAGE 359 ===

=== PAGE 360 ===

346
SPEAKING BEING
you right. That’s the only thing that’s worth anything. Something that makes you right; that’s 
worth something. Something that makes somebody or something else wrong; that’s worth 
something. Something with which you can dominate; that’s worth something. Something with 
which you can avoid domination; that’s worth something. Something you can justify yourself 
with or invalidate others; that’s worth something.
(loudly)
The truth isn’t worth anything. It’s worthless because you can’t use it. And the instant you try to 
draw a conclusion from it, you make a “therefore”; you put a “therefore” behind the truth and 
it sucks all the truth out of it. It’s no longer true; it is now more bullshit. You stumble across the 
truth, you happen to bump into it, leave it alone. By leave it alone I don’t mean walk away from 
it, or ignore it, I mean: let it be. Is that clear? You want to take that page out of Jacob’s book, 
and it will move things forward here more rapidly. And we won’t still be here Monday morn-
ing. 
(Jacob sits as Erhard addresses another standing participant)
You did not get that it’s empty and meaningless?
DENNIS
I want to believe that I’m getting it, but I’m not getting it. 
ERHARD
What is it that you’re not getting?
DENNIS
That life is empty and meaningless.
ERHARD
Okay. What is the meaning of life? 
DENNIS
I don’t know. That’s what I’m here for. 
WES
I’m now going to tell you. You want to know the meaning of life? Let me tell you the meaning 
of life, and then you’ll know the meaning of life and you’ll see the diff erence it makes in your 
life. 
Wes got a dictionary from the table and read from it the defi nition of “life”: “The property or quality 
that distinguishes living organisms from dead organisms...etc.”
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 360 ===

=== PAGE 361 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
347
ERHARD
It’s all clear now, isn’t it? It’s all clear now. Absolutely. That cleared it all up, now didn’t it? Go 
on Wes.
(after much laughter, Wes continues to read several defi nitions of “life”)
It’s all clear now isn’t it?
DENNIS
No it’s not...
ERHARD
Listen up. You’ve got a hidden standard for getting it. Did you hear what I said? You’ve got a 
hidden standard for getting it. It’s kind of like, when I hear the angels trumpet then I’ll know 
I got it. So you want to get that standard up on the mat in order to be able to get it. What’s the 
standard? How are you going to know when you got it?
DENNIS
I guess when I hear my bells ring. 
KIPP
He wants the bells. We’ll give him the bells.
ERHARD
Listen, now. This is it.
KIPP
We’re going to demonstrate something so that every time you give signifi cance to your life, you 
can see what life really means. 
Kipp opened a dictionary and balanced it on his head. Then he held a chalkboard eraser in each
hand and walked around the room through the group, very solemnly clapping the two erasers to-
gether and dispensing eraser dust like the incense in a church processional. He approached Dennis
and clapped the erasers directly in front of him, as if dispensing a blessing. The room broke out into
extended applause and laughter.
ERHARD (to the group)
You understand he was illustrating you all; you’re just covert about it. That’s what you look like 
when you stand in the truth. Is that silly enough? Think you’ll remember that? When you’re 
pontifi cating, you want to remember that’s what you look like.
(to Dennis)
See: You’re wanting to make some signifi cance out of getting it. 


=== END OF PAGE 361 ===

=== PAGE 362 ===

348
SPEAKING BEING
DENNIS
That’s correct.
ERHARD
And getting it is to get that there is no signifi cance. So there can’t be any signifi cance in getting 
it. You want to know where you’ve got your foot nailed to the fl oor? When you were younger 
somebody told you some bullshit about what it was to get it. What were you told when you were 
young about what it was to be enlightened, to get it?
DENNIS
I was brought up believing that one should be successful and make things happen for yourself, 
to be in control. 
ERHARD
Yeah, and you know that was the product of the culture in which you were brought up, and 
family in which you were brought up, and the time of history in which you were brought up. 
And you know, there are cultures in which success is looked down upon, in which you have to 
hide your success. You know that, right? 
DENNIS
Sure.
ERHARD
Sure. So what’s the signifi cance of that? I mean, which is right? Which is the right way to 
go? Is the right way to go and devote your life to success, or to devote your life to something 
else? Which is the right way to go? Do you see that the question is insane? You go the way you 
go. The question whether it is right or wrong is irrelevant, stupid, is stupefying. Look at how 
stupid it made you. That was not an insult. It was just a report. Look at the stupidity that you’ve 
revealed in your own lives. You know, the “at the heart of it” stupidity. Yeah there’s nothing 
wrong with being oriented around and regarding being successful or accomplishment highly.
DENNIS
Yeah but, I feel like... I don’t consider myself overly successful, but somewhat successful, like 
you said...
ERHARD
Here’s how successful you are. I’ve seen your bank account: You’re as successful as you are. 
That’s how successful you are and it’ll probably remain like that. No matter how much you 
accomplish, you will only be as successful as you are, and you will not be as successful as you 
aren’t. And that’s the way it’s going to be for the rest of your life. Right? It’s like “who’s buried 
in Grant’s tomb?” 


=== END OF PAGE 362 ===

=== PAGE 363 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
349
DENNIS
Sure I can buy that.
ERHARD
Grant is buried in Grant’s tomb, and that’s about how complex this whole thing is. Things are 
the way they are and things are not the way that they are not, and they are always like that and 
they don’t change.
DENNIS
See, I have a hard time... I want to believe, Werner... 
ERHARD
I appreciate that...
DENNIS
...but it’s like, I came here with some conceptions that... “Okay, I am here, because I feel fi ne. 
I am successful. There are certain things wrong I would like to fi x.” Sitting here, wanting to 
believe, but I’m hearing, “let it be.”
ERHARD
I never said “let it be.” That’s somebody else’s horseshit. I never said “let it be,” because you 
can’t do anything but let it be--and pretend that you’re doing something else. What I said is 
“what is, is, and what isn’t, isn’t.” That’s mine. That’s pretty goddamned safe. I’ll take on any-
body who wants to attack me on that one. 
DENNIS
No, I’m not trying to attack you...
ERHARD
No, no, I know you’re not trying to attack me. I did not mean to imply that, and I’m sorry if it 
sounded like I did.
DENNIS
No, I’m just trying...
ERHARD
You’re trying to hear bells. All you’re going to hear is simplicity.
DENNIS
Yeah, I guess I came here thinking that four days and three hours on the fi fth day is going to 
make a diff erence in my life. I just can’t go home and quit and say the rest will be history. You 
have to go back to your life.


=== END OF PAGE 363 ===

=== PAGE 364 ===

350
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
Nobody said “quit.” Okay go on.
DENNIS
Right, I know. When I try to make sense out of believing there is no meaning...
ERHARD
No, I don’t want you to believe that there’s no meaning; that would make you crazy. 
DENNIS
Yeah, if I went home and said that life doesn’t make any sense, it doesn’t mean anything...
ERHARD
I didn’t say it doesn’t make any sense. I said it’s empty and meaningless, and it’s empty and 
meaningless that it’s empty and meaningless. That’s all I’ve said. And if you went home and 
said it’s empty and meaningless and it’s empty and meaningless that it’s empty and meaning-
less, you would get into trouble. See, just like I would get into trouble if I said that to people 
who didn’t pay me $625. And I don’t say it to people who don’t pay me $625, and then I don’t 
say it until the third day. Don’t tell people life is empty and meaningless, because they can’t 
hear you. They can’t hear that because it’s all the way down at the bottom. Where are they? 
They’re all the way up at the top. They’re fl oating on all that soap opera and drama, all those 
rackets and all that act. They can’t see down through the murk that it’s empty and meaning-
less. What you’ve been through is designed to take you down one layer at a time, until you can 
get far enough down so that you can see that all the way down it’s empty and meaningless. 
And it’s very, very diffi  cult to get down there because you can’t use that. And that’s kind of 
what you’re complaining about. It didn’t leave you feeling wonderful. It didn’t leave you free 
and easy and wonderful, and it never does until you get there. The secret is perfectly hidden. 
That’s why almost nobody gets it. It’s why it took three days, four days of hammering to get you 
close to getting it. And you may not get it. But I want you to know something: That’s all there is 
to get here. What there is to get for your $625, and the four days and three hours crushing your 
backside, is that life is empty and meaningless, and that it’s empty and meaningless that it’s 
empty and meaningless. And that the soap opera you’ve made out of your life is a very bad joke. 
It’s a bad joke. You’ve made everything signifi cant and meaningful and it’s caused you to suff er. 
And not only the bad things, but you suff er the good things, because the good things don’t 
leave you fulfi lled and whole and complete. They don’t leave you full of joy and satisfi ed. So 
you not only suff er the bad things, you suff er the good things as well. Your life is nothing but 
suff ering. And the source of suff ering is a lie. There’s only one source of suff ering. The source 
of suff ering is a lie. Stop lying and you’ll stop suff ering. And the fundamental lie is that it all 
means something, that it’s going to work out, that you’re going to make it someday, that you’re 
going to get there, that someday the fairy prince is going to come along, or the fairy princess is 
going to come along, or someday the right job, or someday the right life, or someday the right 
body. That’s the lie that keeps the suff ering in place. When you get to empty and meaningless 
you get that there’s no more suff ering. All there is, is possibility. Freedom. Openness. But you 
Your life is nothing but suff ering. And the 
source of suff ering is a lie. There’s only one 
source of suff ering. The source of suff ering is a 
lie. Stop lying and you’ll stop suff ering. And the
fundamental lie is that it all means something, 
that it’s going to work out, that you’re going
to make it someday, that you’re going to get 
there, that someday the fairy prince is going
to come along, or the fairy princess is going
to come along, or someday the right job, or 
someday the right life, or someday the right 
body. That’s the lie that keeps the suff ering 
in place.
“


=== END OF PAGE 364 ===

=== PAGE 365 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
351
can’t get to empty and meaningless in-order-to. And every time you turn it into an in-order-to, 
you lose that it’s empty and meaningless, because the truth is sucked out of it, and it becomes a 
mere platitude. 
DENNIS
I just want to end with saying that I will leave here with the thought that life is empty and 
meaningless and that opens up a possibility.
ERHARD
I don’t want you to leave with “it opens up a possibility.” That ruins it.
DENNIS
Is that an in-order-to?
ERHARD
Yeah. See, you’re a real in-order-to guy. That’s not bad. That’s not an insult. That’s highly valued 
in this culture. We place a lot of value in this culture in in-order-to.
DENNIS
Thank you.
ERHARD
Yep. Very good. Thank you.
(applause)
(turning to another participant) 
What is your story?
JOYCE
My story is that I get it and I reject it.
ERHARD
Okay. Don’t do that. What are you crying about? Do you know? Yeah, you know, what are you 
crying about?
JOYCE
Because I came to make a change in my life and I don’t see it happening. 
ERHARD
Yes. I understand. So, you wanted to make a change in your life because there’s a little suff er-
ing there, yes? Yeah. The way to perpetuate the suff ering is to try to change your life. You stop 
changing your life, the suff ering will go away. Is that clear?


=== END OF PAGE 365 ===

=== PAGE 366 ===

352
SPEAKING BEING
JOYCE
Yes. It’s clear.
ERHARD
So, don’t do that anymore. Cut that out. Stop rejecting it. Stop trying to get better. Stop trying to 
change your life. What is it you want out of life, that’s so goddamned important that you want 
to change your life? What is it that’s bothering you because it’s missing?
JOYCE
I want to like myself. I don’t like myself.
ERHARD
Okay. Now. Start not liking yourself. Do that right now. Don’t like yourself right now.
(Joyce laughing)
What are you smiling about? I thought you said you didn’t like yourself.
(laughter)
Don’t like yourself some more. This is pretty good. Now don’t like yourself even more. You 
notice everything changed. Now like yourself. Like yourself. 
JOYCE
It’s not diff erent.
ERHARD
It’s no fucking diff erent is it?
(laughter)
Liking yourself and not liking yourself are the same thing: It’s all bullshit. 
(raising his voice to a pitch)
What is this goddamned fantasy about liking yourself? What in the fuck is that? That’s crazy! 
That’s like walking around saying “Don’t look! Don’t look! Oh my God there’s a man back there 
following me with a knife with blood dripping down.” Bullshit people made up: liking your-
self/not liking yourself. You know what not liking yourself is? It’s a conversation you have with 
yourself. Bullshit people made up, this “liking yourself/not liking yourself.” You know what 
not liking yourself is? It’s a conversation you have with yourself. 
JOYCE
It’s a conversation I constantly have with myself.
ERHARD
Yeah, but stop it then. This is craziness. What is the signifi cance of liking yourself or not liking 
yourself? Does it change a hair on your head?


=== END OF PAGE 366 ===

=== PAGE 367 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
353
JOYCE
It doesn’t change anything externally.
ERHARD
It doesn’t change anything. It doesn’t change any little thing. It changes absolutely nothing. It’s 
a bullshit conversation. It’s like talking about “Which way is left?” 
(to Joyce) 
Which way is left?
(she points to her left)
No, that’s right. 
JOYCE
No, it’s not right.
ERHARD
It is so right!
JOYCE
To you.
ERHARD
But do you see how nonsensical this conversation is between you and me now? 
JOYCE
Yes.
ERHARD
Liking yourself and not liking yourself is just as nonsensical. You got conned into some bullshit 
conversation.
JOYCE
Yeah.
ERHARD
Did you ever hear people on drugs talking? They’re like, nutty. Like myself/don’t like myself is 
the same crap. “Whoa. Sha? Go man! Jack Damn!” What does all that shit mean? 
(laughter)
It’s all drama, drama. You ever been to the movies?


=== END OF PAGE 367 ===

=== PAGE 368 ===

354
SPEAKING BEING
JOYCE
Yeah.
ERHARD
People are acting up there. It’s not for real. This is your act, not liking yourself. It’s your act.
JOYCE
I get that. I get that I put on an act.
ERHARD
There’s nothing to like or not like. What does that mean: like or don’t like? You are the way you 
are. That’s the whole story, isn’t it?
JOYCE
Yeah.
ERHARD
And you’re always going to be the way you are. And you’re going to be the way you are when 
you are the way you are. Today you are the way you are today. Tomorrow you’ll be like the way 
you’ll be tomorrow. And the day after that you’ll be like you are the day after that. And that’s 
going to be true for the rest of your life. What is this conversation like or don’t like yourself? 
What does this mean? This is insane this conversation I like, I don’t like. And you ought to be 
able to begin to see the insanity of it. It’s like really insane. What is it about, for God’s sake? 
What is the point? The point is drama, like soap opera. You know, you use life to make a soap 
opera: that’s disgusting. Life is empty and meaningless. It’s just like that.
JOYCE
I see that. It doesn’t make any diff erence whether I like myself or not. But I’m stuck. I want to 
like myself. 
ERHARD
But no. Let me ask you something. Listen up you all! What happens when you raise the issue of 
liking yourself? What has to go with the issue of liking yourself? Must. What is it that has to be 
there in order for you to like yourself? There’s only one thing that has got to be there for you to 
have the issue of liking yourself.
JOYCE
What would have to go with it?
ERHARD
Yeah. What is it that has to be there in order for you to like yourself? There’s only one thing 
that’s got to be there. 


=== END OF PAGE 368 ===

=== PAGE 369 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
355
JOYCE
Not liking yourself?
ERHARD
Yeah. Obvious, huh? You can’t have liking yourself without not liking yourself. Get rid of both 
of them. It’s a bullshit conversation. There’s nothing in there. It’s pure drama.
JOYCE
It’s arguing with yourself.
ERHARD
It’s like arguing if you’re blue or green. Are you blue or green?
JOYCE
I’m neither.
ERHARD
Absolutely. It’s like, are you likable or unlikable? It’s like asking you if you’re blue or green. 
It’s the same kind of question. Are you blue or green? It’s nonsense. It’s garbage, and if you 
ask garbage questions you get garbage answers. Every time someone likes theirself, what gets 
reinforced?
JOYCE
I don’t know.
ERHARD
Not liking theirself. Don’t you see that you can’t have a lot of liking yourself and just a little 
bit of not liking yourself? They got to be exactly even, because you can’t build liking yourself 
except in contrast to not liking yourself.
JOYCE
You’re saying to throw both of them away.
ERHARD
Yeah. This is a garbage question liking yourself/not liking yourself. Cut that out. Hold some-
body’s hand; look up at the sky; go make something happen: But don’t waste your time with the 
question of liking yourself or not liking yourself. That’s your racket. 
JOYCE  (weeping)
One of my rackets...


=== END OF PAGE 369 ===

=== PAGE 370 ===

356
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
Right: and a signifi cant racket for you. What you have to get to is that it’s empty and meaning-
less. Underneath your racket is all empty and meaningless. If I take away liking yourself and 
not liking yourself, what are you left with? Nothing. There’s where we want to leave you: with 
nothing. Is that clearer?
JOYCE
Yeah, but I don’t want to be left with nothing.
ERHARD
I know, because there’s a payoff  in not liking yourself. You’re getting something out of it. You’re 
a racketeer. You’re in it for the payoff . 
JOYCE
Yes, I am. 
ERHARD
Yeah. You like the payoff , be my guest.
JOYCE
No I don’t like it.
ERHARD
Then cut it out. And if you can’t cut it out, where you need to get to is that underneath the 
racket is empty and meaningless. You have to see that your racket’s a joke. You’re not going to 
get rid of your racket, ever. You get rid of one, you’ll fi nd another one under that. It’s endless. 
It’s rackets all the way down, I told you. It’s like peeling an onion. You take off  one racket, you 
get another racket. You take off  another racket, you get another racket. You know what’s at the 
center of an onion? Nothing. When you pull the last layer off , what’s left? Nothing. Sorry for the 
cheap metaphor. Life is empty and meaningless and it doesn’t mean anything that life is empty 
and meaningless. Did you get it? I didn’t say “did you feel good?” I said “did you get it?”
JOYCE
Life is empty and meaningless that life is empty and meaningless means nothing.
ERHARD
No. It’s life is empty and meaningless and that doesn’t mean anything. Don’t give any meaning 
to that. See, you’re trying to make that mean something. Like, “Well, then I shouldn’t have to 
bother!” No. It doesn’t mean anything; you can’t make meaning out of it, otherwise you destroy 
it. And as soon as you do make it mean something you take the truth power out of it; you take 
the truth value out of it. Then it becomes some stupid platitude that you bother people with. 
“Don’t you know that life is empty and meaningless?” People don’t want to hear that shit. 


=== END OF PAGE 370 ===

=== PAGE 371 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
357
(laughter)
Don’t go around telling people life is empty and meaningless. Live your life from it. Don’t tell 
people that. So what there is to get is that life is empty and meaningless and that that doesn’t 
have any meaning. That is to say: the fact that life is empty and meaningless is empty and 
meaningless. It’s just empty and meaningless.
JOYCE
I get that.
ERHARD
Okay, that’s all there is to get for the moment. I didn’t say you have to feel good. 
Erhard continued working one by one with the people who had stood because they did not get that 
life is empty and meaningless. 
ERHARD  (to another participant)
What is your problem?
SALLY
I’m having a hard time with life being empty and meaningless that life is empty and 
meaningless.
ERHARD
Let me make it easy for you. Life is empty and meaningless: Did you get that part?
SALLY
Yes.
ERHARD
What does that mean? What is the signifi cance of that statement?
SALLY
That it’s empty and meaningless, but I’m sitting here thinking, “Fuck it! Who cares?”
ERHARD
No, you just made it mean something. You didn’t get it because you made it mean something. 
You said, “well if it’s empty and meaningless then...” See, once you said “then,” you didn’t get 
it; you ruined it. Is that clear what I just said?
SALLY
Yeah, then it becomes something. Then it means something.


=== END OF PAGE 371 ===

=== PAGE 372 ===

358
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD
What it means is, “Then fuck it!” So you’ve got to get, not only that it’s empty and meaningless, 
but also that it’s empty and meaningless that it’s empty and meaningless.
SALLY
Well, I want to do something with it...
ERHARD
I understand.
SALLY
But there’s nothing to do.
ERHARD
That’s right. There’s nothing to do. Anything you do ruins it. You want to make a prescription 
out of it, Sally. You want it to tell you what to do. And like I said yesterday, the truth never 
gives any prescription. And if you get any prescription out of the truth, you suck the truth value 
out of it. It becomes devoid of any truth value. All you can do with this is get it. It’s not worth 
anything; it’s worth nothing; it’s worthless: Because you can’t use it. It doesn’t help you to win; 
it doesn’t help you to avoid losing; it doesn’t help you to be right... see, if only it would tell you 
what to do with your life, then you would be happy. See, you would all be happy if we put on a 
presentation here, skillfully enough so that you actually believed that you knew what you were 
supposed to do with your life. So listen up. If we had a real scam ... and Wes and Kipp and I are 
smart enough to put one together—make a note—it’s maybe worth doing.
(laughter)
But I want you to listen. What would people say if you did The Forum and it left you knowing 
clearly what you were supposed to do with your life? People would really love that, wouldn’t 
they?
SALLY
It would be a lot easier to sign up.
ERHARD
Yeah, it would be a lot easier to sign up, and we could charge more. 
(laughter)
I want you to see how silly you are. If The Forum... You’d really have to believe it, wouldn’t 
you? Otherwise it would be bullshit. Suppose after The Forum was all over, you had no doubt—
none—it was crystal clear to you that you had found out what you were supposed to do with 
your life, really supposed to do. You would be very happy. Very happy. If you knew exactly 
what you were supposed to do, what you’re really supposed to do, you’d be real happy, because 
you’d have the answer. Julie?
Nothing: Beyond Nihilism
In An Introduction to Metaphysics, Heidegger points out that if 
the fundamental question of metaphysics were to be put simply 
as “Why are there beings?” then we would be starting from an 
assumption of the being’s is-ness, its givenness as a being. But, 
says Heidegger, with the addition of a second clause—“Why are 
there beings at all instead of nothing?”—the givenness of the 
being is thrown into question, and the being itself is held out “into 
the possibility of not-being,” and thus begins “to waver” (IM 31). 
Until we have confronted this possibility of non-Being, and have
thus opened ourselves to the other side of Being, we have not 
appropriated our true nature: “Da-sein means: being held out into
the nothing” (“WM” in BW 103).
W
The event of nihilation is an essential element of Being: 
“Being nihilates—as Being” (“LH” in BW 261). However, this 
W
statement should not be heard as justifying charges that 
Heidegger’s thinking is nihilism:
But where is the real nihilism at work? Where
one clings to current beings and believes it is 
enough to take beings, as before, just as the
beings that they are. But with this, one rejects
the question of Being and treats Being as a
nothing (nihil), which in a certain way it even 
“is,” insofar as it essentially unfolds. Merely to
chase aft er beings in the midst of the oblivion 
of Being—that is nihilism. . . . In contrast, to 
go expressly up to the limit of Nothing in the
question about Being, and to take Nothing into 
the question of Being—this is the first and only 
fruitful step toward the true overcoming of 
nihilism. (IM 226
M
)
“


=== END OF PAGE 372 ===

=== PAGE 373 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
359
JULIE
And then I would start bitching.
ERHARD
Exactly. This is a wise woman. How does she know “then I would start bitching”? Because you 
always bitch. That’s like shooting fi sh in a barrel, that kind of a prediction. I told you about the 
Boy Scouts. It didn’t make any diff erence: “Today we’re going on a hike”; “Today we’re going 
swimming.” “Oh no!” Everything was “oh no!” So, you can’t get anything out of this. I told you 
the truth. You don’t use the truth; the truth uses you. 
SALLY
Where I keep... I guess where I keep getting stuck is I want to get it so that possibility opens up.
ERHARD
That’s an in-order-to. That’s called a “rice Christian”: That’s when you go to church to get rice. 
Getting paid. Most of you go to church in-order-to, don’t you? Sure you do. Don’t bullshit me. I 
know why you go to church. You go to church in-order-to. It’s sacrilegious. 
(asking a participant to stand up; turning back to Sally)
So you’ve just got to get rid of the in-order-tos: Whether you do or not is up to you, not up to me.
SALLY
But aren’t they just going to keep coming back?
ERHARD
Sure, they’re going to keep coming back; that’s why you’ve got to be able to dwell in that it’s 
empty and meaningless, and that it’s empty and meaningless that it’s empty and meaningless. 
Dwell in; not believe, not understand, not remember. That’s why we don’t speak in concepts in 
here, because concepts are things people remember and forget. Distinctions remember you. You 
don’t remember them; they remember you. You don’t use them; they use you. That’s why we’ve 
got this funny language. It’s the language of distinction, not the language of conceptualization. 
(to Sally)
What else?
SALLY
I’m going to sit down, because I don’t know what there is I have to do.
ERHARD
There’s nothing you have to do.
Thus nihilism consists in the avoidance of the nothing, since by
avoiding nothingness, we in fact avoid the full disclosure of Being. 
Thereby, we retain an incomplete apprehension of our possibility
as beings. Nevertheless, Heidegger does not deny that the “Nothing”
speaks something fundamentally disturbing:
The nothing itself does not attract; it is 
essentially repelling. But this repulsion is 
itself as such a parting gesture toward beings 
that are submerging as a whole. This wholly 
repelling gesture toward beings that are in 
retreat as a whole, which is the action of the 
nothing that oppresses Dasein in anxiety, is the 
essence of the nothing: nihilation. It is neither 
an annihilation of beings nor does it spring 
from a negation. Nihilation will not submit 
to calculation in terms of annihilation and 
negation. The nothing itself nihilates. (“WM” in 
BW 103
W
)
“
As Being and beings move apart, as Being withdraws into its 
always-potential concealment, the everyday meaning of beings is
ongoingly subject to nihilation. Revealing and concealing, Being
gives and nothing nihilates. This is the way of the world. And in 
the nihilating of the nothing lies the possibility of the clearing:
In the clear night of the nothing of anxiety the
original openness of beings as such arises: that 
they are beings—and not nothing.  [. . .] The 
essence of the originally nihilating nothing 
lies in this, that it brings Da-sein for the first 
time before beings as such. Only on the ground 
of the original revelation of the nothing can 
human existence approach and penetrate 
beings. (“WM” in BW 103
W
)
“


=== END OF PAGE 373 ===

=== PAGE 374 ===

360
SPEAKING BEING
SALLY
So then I’m going to sit down.
ERHARD
No. You’re only going to sit down if you do. You’re not going to sit down because there’s nothing 
to do; you’re going to sit down if you sit down. And if you don’t sit down, you don’t sit down. 
You’re not going to sit down “because.” You’re still trying to fi nd something to save you. There’s 
no life rings in here. This is the place where we take all the life rings away. There’s nothing to 
stand on. I want you to stand on nothing. I want you to stand on empty and meaningless. Meet 
life with no foundation, with no background, with no learning. Yeah of course you have all the 
learning and all the experience, but you’re not stuck with it. You’re not stuck with what you 
know; you’re not stuck with your condition; you’re not stuck with your past. 
SALLY
I have a question. So, if what I’m making it mean is that it’s hopeless: Are you saying that I 
don’t have to make it mean that? 
ERHARD
If what you’re making it mean is that it’s hopeless, what you want to do is to see that you are 
making it mean that it’s hopeless. You’re doing that. Now, by the way: It is hopeless. And the 
reason it’s hopeless is because of what you have to have if you’re going to have hope. There’s 
only one thing you’ve got to have. Hope cannot exist without hopelessness. And the stronger 
you get your hopes up, the more down in the swamp, down at the bottom of the Valley of the 
Shadow of Death, down in the swamp there, is hopelessness. So the more hope you’ve got, the 
more green slimy monsters there are down in the Valley of the Shadow of Death. Hopelessness. 
It lives down in the swamp at the bottom of the Valley of the Shadow of Death, with all your 
hope up there at the top, except the green slimy monsters keep you from ever being satisfi ed, 
from ever being full of joy. Look, you make a drama up out of being tired. You should have seen 
you the fi rst night. A true drama out of being tired; you make a fucking drama out of death. 
That’s right, death is so nasty because you made a drama out of it. Death is nothing but dying. 
It’s not a drama. Who said death was bad? You did. Okay fi ne: Pope. One thing. People worry 
about death, right? What is there to worry about? Let me explain something to you: You are 
going to die. Don’t worry. You are. You are going to die. And so is everybody else. Everybody 
you love and care about, they’re all going to die. Don’t worry. They will. 
(a participant objects)
You’re a bit nutty about this. You get up every time I talk about dying. And you know what? 
You won’t die one minute before you do. And you want to know what? You won’t live one min-
ute longer when you’re dead. You don’t have to worry about that. It’s all taken care of. You’re 
not going to die before you do and you’re not going to live after you die. Now you can worry 
about something else. So that business about hope and hopelessness: It’s the same conversa-
tion about liking yourself. What is this hope crap? What does that change? What does that do? 
What does that make? What is the value of hope? If you hope it’s going to turn out all right, that 
This is an essential element of the approach to Being which is 
taken in the dialogue of The Forum. To reach Being, one must
travel by way of the nothing. To discover possibility, one must 
confront the facticity, the trap, of no-possibility. Further, what
Heidegger calls “authentic Being-towards-death,” or “freedom 
towards death,” may be seen as consistent with these other 
views: to experience the authentic possibility of one’s life, one 
must confront one’s essential nullity. Conscience calls Dasein—
fallen into the untruth of the “they” self—to “appropriate 
untruth authentically” (BT 345), to bring authenticity to one’s
T
inauthenticity, to be in the trap.
It is of the utmost importance, however, to stress again 
this point: to “confront” means to experience an ontological 
encounter, not merely an ontical or conceptual realization. For 
r
instance, the merely ontic recognition that we all die is of course 
commonplace. On the other hand, the ontological experience of 
the death of one’s self as identity, and the deep realization of the 
possibility of one’s self as an opening, with all the ramifications 
of anxiety and homelessness which that experience entails, is far 
from commonplace. This is the revelation of the nothing, the call 
of conscience, which Heidegger posits as the ground for authentic
existence, and this is the encounter for which the rhetorical
structure of The Forum is designed.
Authentic inquiry into Being is likely to arouse resistance,
and this resistance may be located precisely at the juncture 
where Being’s other side, the Nothing, must be confronted. Here 
is the true challenge of Heidegger’s thinking, which Caputo calls 
“the danger of Heidegger’s path”: at this juncture “there are no 
assurances,” and “in this darkness and uncertainty lies one of the 
largest difficulties with Heidegger’s work” (The Mystical Element 
l
in Heidegger’s Thought 245). Caputo quotes Paul Huhnerfeld, 
who has compared Heidegger’s way with religious paths to 
transformation, such as that of the Christian mystic Meister 
Eckhart: “Meister Eckhart would never have taken the mystical 
step if he had believed that he was leaping into Nothingness 
instead of into the arms of God” (245).


=== END OF PAGE 374 ===

=== PAGE 375 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
361
makes it turn out all right, right? Or it’s going to turn out wrong if you hope it’s going to turn 
out so you don’t dare hope. It’s voodoo. That’s nuts. That’s a guy following me with a knife with 
blood dripping down from it: “Don’t look! But you can’t see him anyhow, only I can see him.”
(laughter)
Look, what are you hoping for? You’re hoping it’ll all be all right, huh?
SALLY
Yeah.
ERHARD
But it won’t be all right. It’ll be the way it is. It won’t be any diff erent from the way it is. That’s 
the way it will be. It’ll be the way that it is. And all you’re doing is making a drama out of it. Is 
that clear?
SALLY
Yes.
ERHARD
If you like making dramas out of it go ahead. What you do with your life is none of my busi-
ness. That’s not my business, that’s your business. 
SALLY
So there’s no good or bad, there’s just the way it is.
Erhard’s manner is very relaxed and casual at this point, ranging freely in volume from loud to 
intimate. 
ERHARD
There is good and bad. Go out there and shoot someone; then you’ll fi nd out how bad it is. 
SALLY
All right, that’s where I’m stuck then, because...
ERHARD
I know you’re stuck. I know how you were brought up. 
(laughter)
Yeah, there is good and bad, but not inherently. Inherently there’s nothing. Was there goodness 
in the rainstorm when the fl ood came from the rain that killed people? Don’t you see that that’s 
insane? The rainstorm isn’t good or bad it’s a goddamn rainstorm. Where does good and bad 
exist? In a conversation. And that conversation has a lot of force to it. You exist in a particular 
culture; a particular religious culture, a particular ethnic culture, a particular national cul-
ture, a particular family culture, and that’s where good and bad arose from. It’s a phenomenon 
Caputo finds in this aspect of Heidegger’s thought a “serious
difficulty”: “It does not seem to me that many of Heidegger’s 
excited and enthusiastic followers, who speak like Heidegger, as
though they have experienced what Heidegger experienced, have 
recognized the austerity of Heidegger’s path or acknowledged the 
danger which lies along this path” (252–253). The danger of the 
path, says Caputo, lies in the powerlessness of human beings who 
travel it, and in their inability to find secure ground and comfort
in the mysterious realm of Being, whose apparently arbitrary 
nature Heidegger has described here, explicating Fragment 52 of 
Heraclitus, as “play”:
The “because” withers away in the play. The 
play is without “why.” It plays since it plays. 
It simply remains a play: the most elevated 
and the most profound. But this “simply” 
is everything, the one, the only. Nothing is
without ground/reason. Being and ground/
reason: the same. Being, as what grounds,
has no ground; as the abyss it plays the play 
that, as Geschick [destiny], passes [B]eing and 
k
ground/reason to us. The question remains
whether and how we, hearing the movements
of this play, play along and accommodate 
ourselves to the play. (PR 113)
“
Thus, for Caputo, Heidegger’s thought moves “close to the edge of 
despair. For he makes us dependent upon the outcome of a ‘game’ 
upon which our very essence is staked, a game in which thinking 
may lend a hand but in which it has no final say” (251–252).
The diff iculty with Heidegger is not that he is 
a mystic, but that he is not. His thought is so 
radically worldly and secular and drained of 
absolute and divine assurances that it can at 
best assist in a world-play; for the kingdom is 
in the hands of a child. (252)
“


=== END OF PAGE 375 ===

=== PAGE 376 ===

362
SPEAKING BEING
which arises only in language. There is no good or bad outside of language. Now good and bad 
is very real stuff . But it’s a phenomenon that only exists in language. 
(loudly)
Listen up, goddamn it! You’ve stopped thinking again. You think you’ve got it so you don’t have 
to think. The fl oor as an object exists independent of language. That clear? For whom is that 
not clear? Put your hand up if that isn’t clear? 
(looking around the room)
The existence of the fl oor as an object doesn’t require language. Is that clear?
(pausing) 
Good. Is there any such thing as art independent of language? Where there is no language, 
is there art? No, because art is a phenomenon that arises only in language. Now you assholes 
think I said art’s not real and fl oors are. I didn’t say that. Art is very real. It alters the course of 
history, has a profound impact on the culture, changes people’s lives, brings things into peo-
ple’s lives that would not be there were it not for art. It’s very real stuff . It’s real, and it does not 
exist independent of language. Art is a phenomenon that only arises in language. Is that clear? 
There’s no such thing as beauty independent of language. Beauty is a phenomenon which only 
arises in language. There’s no such thing as beauty independent of language. Beauty is real, 
and it does not exist independent of language. You need to start thinking and stop believing. 
You believe too much. There is no such thing as art or beauty or design, no such thing as 
love and happiness. None of the things that are important to you in life exist independent of 
language. Birds don’t build homes. Nests are hard-wired into birds. You don’t understand that 
then don’t get engaged in the conversation. That part of the conversation. Only agents with lan-
guage, only people build homes. Homes are a phenomenon that only arises, only in language. 
So there’s no such thing as beauty or art. Here’s what you want to get out of this. Not beauty or 
art: This is not a course on aesthetics. What you want to get out of it is that there are certain 
phenomena that arise only in language. Over where your dog is, nothing is bad. You know 
where bad is for your dog? Where you are. That’s where bad arises to the dog, because bad is 
a phenomenon that only exists in language. Independent of language there is no bad. There is 
no bad in an earthquake for the earthquake. There’s only bad for people with language...sorry: 
entities with language. And that’s the same thing about good. But it’s very real stuff . It’s not 
unreal. Now, language comes out of silence, which is a form of empty and meaningless. Good 
and bad come out of nothing. It doesn’t come out of inherent good or bad. It’s not like you can 
ignore it. It’s not like it isn’t true. It’s real stuff , and it arises only in language. You can’t report 
that something is good. You can’t give a report that something is bad. Good and bad only arise 
in language. You can’t talk about something being good: Now you do, don’t you? That’s because 
you’re stupid. You talk about things being good and bad. You talk in ignorance that what you’re 
talking about when you talk about good and bad is talking. That’s like talking about talking, 
you understand? When you talk about good and bad you’re talking about talking. 
(to Sally)
You were saying?
Caputo’s point is important, and is central to a consideration 
of the path which Heidegger is inviting us to follow. The authors 
of this book are certainly among those whom Caputo has
described as “excited and enthusiastic” about the possibilities 
of Heidegger’s thinking. However, we do not claim to have 
“experienced what Heidegger experienced”: we do feel an affinity 
for that realm of experience about which he speaks; that affinity 
is due, at least in part, to our participation in the work of Werner 
Erhard. Thus, in the face of Caputo’s challenge, we must ask 
ourselves whether we have truly confronted the “austerity and
danger” of Heidegger’s path.
This is a question that must be asked persistently—a 
question which must be stood within, rather than answered—
since Being must be continually wrested from, and contextualized 
by, non-Being. The nihilation of the nothing must be ongoing. But 
the original encounter is fraught with agon, that is, with contest: 
human resistance to confronting the Nothing is fundamental. 
The Nothing’s enormity so violates our everyday identity that we 
instinctively close ourselves to the possibility which it contains. 
Heidegger states:
We are so finite that we cannot even bring
ourselves originally before the [N]othing 
through our own decision and will. So 
profoundly does finitude entrench itself in 
existence that our most proper and deepest 
limitation refuses to yield to our freedom. 
(“WM” in BW 106)
W
“
Therefore, the struggle to provide an authentic confrontation with 
the austerity of the Nothing, and to overcome the resistance to its 
realization, is a central element of The Forum.
The important questions to be considered in comparing 
Heidegger with religious models of transformation, such as
Meister Eckhart, are these: what might be the transformative 
power of a leap into the truly unknown rather than into the 
arms of a comforting and fatherly God? Might not the “danger”
of Heidegger’s thinking, that abysmal lack of certainty which 
characterizes his leap, in fact constitute its possibility? Might not 
ERHARD (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 376 ===

=== PAGE 377 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
363
SALLY
I got what you were saying up until you were talking about talking.
ERHARD
Good and bad is talking. When you talk about good and bad you’re talking about talking.
SALLY
Okay, I got it.
ERHARD
Did you sort it out?
SALLY
Yeah, there’s just one more thing I want to ask.
ERHARD
Sure.
SALLY
So this morning, we got into a fi ght, my whole family...
ERHARD
Right. Families do that, don’t they?
SALLY
Yeah, all the time.
ERHARD
No: They do it when they do it and they don’t do it when they don’t do it.
SALLY
Right.
ERHARD
“All the time” is a story.
SALLY
Right. So we got in a fi ght this morning, and so I said “It doesn’t mean anything, so leave me 
the fuck alone.”
ERHARD
Right. How many people have done that already: “It doesn’t mean anything, therefore...” 
the transformation of human being arise in that very surrender of 
human control to the unpredictable play of Being, the surrender 
to the mutuality of the event of appropriation? The following 
passage, in which Heidegger is thinking through a Parmenidean
fragment, suggests the essential and continual uncertainty
constitutive of the three-fold path he posits, “that of Being, that 
of not-Being, and that of seeming”:
Superior knowing [. . .] is granted only to one
r
who has experienced the sweeping storm on
the way of Being, to whom the terror of the
second way to the abyss of Nothing has not 
remained foreign, and who has still taken
over the third way, the way of seeming, as a
constant and urgent need. To this knowing
belongs what the Greeks in their great age
called tolma: to dare everything with Being, 
not-Being, and seeming all at once—that is, 
to raise Dasein above itself into the de-cision 
about Being, not-Being, and seeming.
(IM 125
M
) ■
“


=== END OF PAGE 377 ===

=== PAGE 378 ===

364
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD (continuing; participants raising hands)
You’re scum, I know that. 
(laughter)
We told you not to do that and you did it right away, and if you haven’t yet, you will. Sleazy.
SALLY
I’ve also found myself wanting to do the same thing with them. It’s only bad if you make it 
mean something bad.
ERHARD
No, it’s bad because it’s bad. But you have to understand whence bad arises, or bad disempow-
ers you. You can’t avoid bad. Bad’s there. Like I said, go out and do something illegal, and you’ll 
fi nd out about what bad is.
SALLY
So what if I don’t think something’s bad but my dad does?
ERHARD
Who pays the food bills in your house?
SALLY  (laughing)
He does. So it doesn’t matter if I think something’s bad or not. 
ERHARD
Sure it matters if you think it’s bad. But look, what you’ve got is not the same kind of authority 
that your father has because you don’t pay the bills. So if you’re going to deal with the way you 
see things and the way he sees things, you’re going to have to deal with it in a diff erent method 
than he does. He deals with it like he pays the bills. You can’t deal with it like that, because you 
don’t pay the bills. You’ve got to fi nd another way to deal with it. Did you hear what I said?
SALLY
I think so. What I do costs him money, so...
ERHARD
No, what I mean is, he’s got authority. You don’t have authority. You’re not the boss in his 
house, he is, right? 
SALLY
Yeah.


=== END OF PAGE 378 ===

=== PAGE 379 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
365
ERHARD
And that’s the way that is. And you know you can bitch and moan and complain, and all the 
stuff  about that, or you can get that that is where the door is. A lot of people want to go out 
there, and they go over and start kicking on the wall. Because they want to go out there! Fine, 
the door is over there. You want to have your way, what you got to get is where the door is. And 
where the door is, is that your father’s the boss. That’s how to get what you want is “my father’s 
the boss.” If you try to get what you want through “my father’s the boss,” you go through the 
door, instead of kicking your way through the wall. You have a much better chance getting 
to what’s on the other side of the wall going through the door than kicking your way through 
the wall. Yeah, you’ll get through the wall every once in a while, but you’ll also be left bloody. 
Yeah, and the other thing is that it isn’t fair. Gravity isn’t fair. Shouldn’t old people get a break 
from gravity? That’s what you sound like with that “life isn’t fair” shit. Okay fi ne. That’s where 
the door is: The door is, “life isn’t fair.” You want to get where you’re going, you’ve got to go 
through the door. Continuing to kick the wall is saying “life isn’t fair.” What is this conversa-
tion “Life isn’t fair”? What is it? What is the point? It’s another goddamned drama. Life isn’t 
fair. Your father’s the boss, and you live with another adult. You ought to be equal. Too bad. 
That’s not the way it turned out. Your father’s the boss, and you can get what you want—not 
that you can always get what you want—but you got some power to get what you want, as long 
as you go through the door. If you don’t go through the door you’re going to have to use force. 
You’re going to have to make your father wrong, or run away, or fuck something up...
Even if I’m going through the door, but I’m being covert about it then I’m kicking down the 
wall. 
ERHARD
Exactly. And I didn’t say you shouldn’t use your wiles. Nothing wrong with buttering up the old 
man.
(laughter)
You don’t want to defi ne everything. “Okay, now we’re going to do foreplay, are you ready?” 
It’s not a good approach. So yeah, covert is one thing, and playing the game is another thing. 
You’re allowed to play the game and that will work.
SALLY
Being covert won’t work?
ERHARD
No. Being covert doesn’t work. That’s like trying to put one over on somebody. But playing with 
people works. Particularly with fathers with their daughters. Fathers are easy with their daugh-
ters, except when the daughter tries to kick through the wall, right? Okay, you can sit down.


=== END OF PAGE 379 ===

=== PAGE 380 ===

366
SPEAKING BEING
GLORIA
I keep trying to bring morality into this.
ERHARD
The drama of morality... 
GLORIA
Like what she said: If life is empty and meaningless, why produce?
ERHARD
Why produce if life is empty and meaningless?
GLORIA
Not if...
ERHARD
Given that life is empty and meaningless, why produce? There is no reason to produce. Except 
for one thing, Gloria: You did not hear that life was empty and meaningless. You’ve been in 
a conversation with other people and not with me. See, “life is empty and meaningless” does 
not tell you what to do with your life. It gives you no guidance at all, none. My “empty and 
meaningless” is worthless. Your “empty and meaningless” gives you guidance. So your “empty 
and meaningless” tells you that going on is worthless. My “empty and meaningless” tells me 
nothing, gives no prescriptions, explains nothing, justifi es nothing. That’s the “empty and 
meaningless” we’re talking about here. The “empty and meaningless” you’re talking about is 
not the one I’m talking about. Out of your “empty and meaningless” you get a meaning about 
what you should do, you get a prescription for what you should do for your life. My “empty and 
meaningless” has no prescriptions in it. You went to the seminar on the other side of the wall. 
Over there they got a seminar about empty and meaningless and it tells you what to do with 
your life. 
GLORIA
I can understand it intellectually. 
ERHARD
What does that mean “intellectually”? I don’t understand “intellectually.”
GLORIA
I understand it makes sense.


=== END OF PAGE 380 ===

=== PAGE 381 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
367
ERHARD
You understand it with the understanding you have, I get that. You understand it. Period. Now 
what is it that’s missing? 
GLORIA 
It makes me feel like shit. 
ERHARD
Yeah, you don’t like it. The man did not say you would like the truth. As a matter of fact, the 
fi rst thing the truth will do is piss you off . Didn’t you notice people in here? 
GLORIA (laughing)
I almost got into a fi ght last night because of that. 
ERHARD
Because of the truth?
GLORIA
Because of it was empty and meaningless. She was a Forum staff  person so it made me really 
want to punch her.
ERHARD
This is turning the truth into shit. How could empty and meaningless generate anything?
GLORIA (referring to Sally)
What she said about “fuck it.”
ERHARD
But that’s not the empty and meaningless that you got in here. That’s the empty and meaning-
less you got in the seminar on the other side of the wall. The one you paid $625 for, you didn’t 
get that one. You got the cheap one, you got the one that doesn’t cost anything. The $625 one 
does not give you any prescriptions, it does not justify anything. See, you want to use it to justi-
fy something. Right?
GLORIA
Yeah.
ERHARD
You think it justifi es doing nothing, but that’s not the empty and meaningless we’re talking 
about in here. The empty and meaningless we’re talking about in here justifi es nothing. And 
what bothers you is it’s going to invalidate your whole life because you’re a “rice Christian.” 
You didn’t work to work.


=== END OF PAGE 381 ===

=== PAGE 382 ===

368
SPEAKING BEING
GLORIA
I don’t go to church. 
ERHARD
Yeah, you’re a “rice Christian.” I don’t care whether you go to church or not, you’re a “rice 
Christian.” You don’t work to work. You work in-order-to. That makes you a slave. 
GLORIA
That’s human. We’re all human.
ERHARD
Horseshit, human. It’s crap. See, you just used the truth to justify something. You took all of the 
truth out of it. Yes, it is quite human and it justifi es nothing, it explains nothing, and if it does 
justify or explain something it is no longer the truth. It’s just some stupid justifi cation.
GLORIA 
I can’t get any possibility out of it. 
ERHARD
No, because you haven’t gotten it yet.
GLORIA
Okay.
ERHARD
You’ve got to go through that feeling bad, Gloria. You get to feeling bad and stop. You’ve got to 
go all the way through the feeling bad. Did you get that? You’ve got to go all the way through 
it. You still have got something there. You haven’t gotten to empty and meaningless yet. You’ve 
gotten to “empty and meaningless and that’s bad.” That’s not all the way through it. Clear?
GLORIA
Yeah.
ERHARD
Good for you.
(applause)
Jake?
On the fi rst day of The Forum, Jake, an architect, was the participant who was “hustle waiting to 
happen,” and who also had his “foot nailed to the fl oor” in regard to sincerity and inauthenticity.


=== END OF PAGE 382 ===

=== PAGE 383 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
369
JAKE
I was going to ask about the truth, but you already answered that question. But I wanted to also 
share a little about my racket. I wanted to thank you. It sounds like you knew a little bit more 
about me than I expected. I appreciate that.
ERHARD
I know about being human. 
JAKE
It sounds to me that you know what my profession is. I have an attractive profession. It makes 
me more attractive. 
ERHARD
I have a profound respect for your profession. And I probably have more respect for it than 
most of the people who do it. I see it as a very, very, very important opening for humanity. And 
I know there are also people in your profession who also see your profession in that way, but 
not a lot of them. There’s something very important in there that humanity has yet to explore. I 
have a deep respect for design. A deep respect. And it’s a mystery I don’t get. But your partic-
ular profession would not be a bad place to explore the mystery of design. But exploring the 
mystery of design is diff erent than just doing design. 
JAKE
And that’s what I would want to do, but having it as a racket just fucks it all up. And I chose 
the profession because it was an attractive profession. I chose it because I needed a job. I come 
from a highly educated family, and there’s one time I thought I was going to be a bum.
ERHARD
And you decided against that. 
JAKE
Yeah, I decided against that, so I went to school. I got a career: a degree and a license. And 
I was lucky enough to pick a profession, which I now fi nd exciting, but it’s really fucked the 
way—it could be a lot more exciting if I get this other shit out of the way.
ERHARD
Exactly. That’s very good. Jake and I have had enough interactions for something useful to 
happen here. See I know it sounds in the beginning in particular—and for some of you it still 
sounds like—that everything I say is an insult, everything I say is a put-down. I know that 
some of you will describe this to people as “they called me bad names”; ”they beat me up”; 
“They wouldn’t let me use the bathroom”; “He said ‘fuck’ and went like this.”


=== END OF PAGE 383 ===

=== PAGE 384 ===

370
SPEAKING BEING
ERHARD (to laughter, making a gesture with his hands indicating the sex act)
I actually acknowledged that when Jake and I fi rst began to speak, that there’s a lot of accom-
plishment in this room. I didn’t call you an asshole because I didn’t know you were accom-
plished. I knew you were accomplished and I called you an asshole. Like Jake said: There’s a lot 
of satisfaction in what he does and there’s the possibility of a lot more satisfaction in what he 
does. That is what the asshole was about. It was not meant to denigrate you. It was said in full 
knowledge of your accomplishment. It was way more insulting than you thought, but it was 
not meant to denigrate. It was said in full knowledge that you’re accomplished and there’s a lot 
more there could be. 
JAKE
This has been a great experience. I stole a lot of the microphone—talking is another racket. I’ve 
got every racket in this room. And I think everybody else in this room have all the rackets...
ERHARD
Yeah: because they’re not your rackets. The racket is not yours. You are the rackets. The racket 
owns you; you don’t own the racket.
JAKE
I came in with a chip on my shoulder too. You invited us to speak there at the beginning. I 
thought I would ask a question that would really throw this guy about guests for the evening 
session, and the money. This experience was a genuine experience and I owe you an apology 
for that.
ERHARD
The apology is: You made this work for you. 
JAKE
I did.
ERHARD
That makes us even.
(applause)
KIPP
Okay, we’re about to go on a break. Standing in the empty and meaninglessness of life, see if a 
conversation for possibility, for participating in life... 
ERHARD
Let’s not give them an assignment at this point. Just stay with the empty and meaningless, we’ll 
talk about the rest of it when you get back.


=== END OF PAGE 384 ===

=== PAGE 385 ===

 
Forum Day Four: Session One
371
Kipp handled a few logistical items (handing out seminar schedules for those who had received an 
erroneous schedule, etc.). The course supervisor followed Kipp upon the stage to deliver several
announcements.
At 12:15 pm, The Forum adjourned for a break.


=== END OF PAGE 385 ===

=== PAGE 386 ===

372
SPEAKING BEING
The Forgetting of Being, Part Seven of Eight: Logos
Are humans missing out on an important element of existence? How would we 
know? How did this come about? Further, if this element is the experience of Being 
that is available in The Forum, why does that experience occur as elusive—that is, as 
something you get and lose and get and lose? To shed some light on these ques-
tions, we are following Heidegger’s history of Being. 
As we proceed here, we invite you to read from the perspective that while 
Heidegger’s project was supremely intellectual in its approach, it was not epistemo-
logical in nature: he did not want to help us to know more about Being, or to achieve 
what we generally call a greater understanding. Rather, he wanted to create, through 
thinking, a clearing for the presence of Being in the world. In his reading of the exist-
ing fragments of their writing, he finds evidence that the pre-Socratics experienced 
this presence. 
The Unconcealment of Being
The fifth and sixth centuries BCE were an extraordinary period in human evolu-
tion, giving rise to “a development in the art of philosophical inquiry that is quite 
unparalleled in world history” (Wheelwright, The Presocratics 1). Language, by some 
estimates, had entered our evolutionary path a million years earlier; and by the fifth 
century, complex aspects of existence were emerging to be named, and dealt with. 
There was a new level of demand for humans to understand themselves, and their 
place in the world. The decisions made at this point, Heidegger says, have proven to 
be decisive.
We have seen that for the Greeks, Being occurred as physis, the sway, an “over-
whelming coming-to-presence” of emerging possibilities. In a process of languaging 
that Heidegger calls originary naming, the Greeks were engaged in a struggle to 
create a world: “[T]his sway first steps forth from concealment—that is, in Greek, 
aletheia (unconcealment) happens—insofar as the sway struggles itself forth as a 
world. Through world, beings first come into being” (IM 67). 
Physis, emerging as world, stands in the world in aletheia. Aletheia—
unconcealment—was for the Greeks self-blossoming appearance. Heidegger some-
times translated the word aletheia as “truth,” but at other times he was emphatic 
that aletheia for the Greeks bore no relation to our usual notion of truth as the 
correspondence of a proposition with its object. Aletheia, for the pre-Socratics, was 
SESSION ONE INTERVAL
the truth of a being at its inception. To think aletheia, we must imagine an existential 
moment—a moment of virginal emergence when a being is first available to be seen, 
and thus first opened to being apprehended in the world before multiple perspec-
tives of its appearance have given rise to multiple propositions regarding its nature: 
For the Greek essence of truth is possible only together 
with the Greek essence of Being as physis. On the grounds 
of the unique essential relationship between physis and
aletheia, the Greeks could say: beings as beings are true.
The true as such is in being. . . Truth belongs to the essence 
of Being. (IM 112) 
M
The idea challenges our thinking, immersed as we are in a persistent cacophony of 
conflicting truth claims. But the view that beings as beings are essentially true was 
grounded in a particular ontological/historical context: for the pre-Socratic thinkers, 
physis was Being brought to stand in the world with beings, and in that context the 
unconcealed beings stood in truth. The truth of beings was the truth of Being. We 
cannot grasp that notion of truth—cannot imagine it, cannot bring it to thought—
because we have lost the requisite orientation to Being. 
Truth as Freedom
Fundamental to that orientation, says Heidegger, is that the essence of its truth is 
freedom. But this understanding of the situation calls for a shift in what our Western 
tradition has considered to be the relation of freedom to truth. In that tradition, 
freedom is a property of human beings, and consists in our freedom to say, and in 
saying to judge what is true. This is the Cartesian model, with the balance of power 
weighted on the side of the subject.
But now the emphasis in Heidegger’s view is the freedom that arises in 
aletheia—in unconcealment, the freedom of the openness of the open region in 
which beings are first revealed. This shift—from the freedom of the human sayer 
to speak truth, to the freedom for beings to be the true things they are—is a central 
movement in Heidegger’s later thinking: “Freedom now reveals itself as letting 
beings be” (“OET” in BW 125). But this is not letting-be in the sense of neglecting, or 
letting things alone. Here it means the opposite: “To let be is to engage oneself with 
beings,” not by managing or planning but by an alert attunement to the open region 
“into which every being comes to stand, bringing that openness, as it were, along 
with itself” (“OET” in BW 125).
“


=== END OF PAGE 386 ===

=== PAGE 387 ===

Forum Day Four: Session One Interval 373
Heidegger is distinguishing a delicate balance—a way of relating to the world 
in which we neither impose ourselves upon, nor surrender to and lose ourselves in, 
beings. Rather, we withdraw somewhat, so that “they might reveal themselves with 
respect to what and how they are,” and so that we might find their truth in the event 
of their unconcealment (“OET” in BW 125). In aletheia, Being appears in undistorted 
emerging: “Considered in regard to the essence of truth, the essence of freedom 
manifests itself as exposure to the disclosedness of beings” (“OET” in BW 126). Ale-
theia, says Heidegger, is “Revealing as the order at the start” (EP 65).
We note here that Werner Erhard has consistently avoided truth claims for his work, 
emphasizing repeatedly that he does not know the truth. We propose, however, that 
an experience of the truth of Being is a fundamental element of The Forum (see the 
first sidebar in the next session, “The Three Levels of Truth”). It is hinted at through-
out the dialogue in the unspoken realm of the conversation, and culminates with 
the evocation of the Nothing; but perhaps its most pertinent articulation is Erhard’s 
distinction of integrity, which begins with this definition: integrity is “the state of be-
ing whole, complete, unbroken, unimpaired, sound, in perfect condition” (Erhard and 
Jensen, “Putting Integrity into Finance: A Purely Positive Approach” 6). 
This understanding of integrity is harmonic with phua, the root of the word 
physis, which according to Heidegger means “what one originally and authentically 
already is: that which essentially unfolds as having been, in contrast to the subse-
quently forced and enforced contrivances and fabrications” (IM 111). In the context 
of their fundamental orientation to Being, beings were seen by the pre-Socratics as 
originally true, a truth arising in the moment of their free emergence. Distortions of 
their truth were subsequent to their unconcealment. This sense of Being as what 
one originally and authentically is, we assert, is consistent with Erhard’s under-
standing of integrity, and the distinction of integrity is a fundamental element of the 
transformation that The Forum makes available. 
Logos: Primal Gathering
Emerging into the truth of unconcealment, physis is gathered in logos. According to 
Heidegger, just as the original power of the Greek term physis has been lost, so has 
the meaning of logos devolved over time. The traditional academic conception of 
this term is that it concerns discourse of some kind—generally reason, assertion, or 
logic. In Aristotle’s Rhetoric, for example, logos designated that category of evidence 
in which a speaker uses evidence conducive to a given audience’s ability to reason, 
making an argument persuasive to that audience. 
But these interpretations are later derivations, since the fundamental meaning 
of the term for the pre-Socratics had “no immediate relation to language” (IM 137). 
Instead, logos, as legein, a form of the verb lego, meant originally to lay, to gather or 
collect. Legein is to lay down, to lay before; logos signified the primal gathering principle. 
As beings emerged from the sway and into the world, embryonic in their mean-
ing, fragile in their truth, the task to be undertaken was to preserve them in their 
unconcealment and in their fundamental orientation to Being: “To be human,” writes 
Heidegger, “means to gather, to gather and apprehend the Being of beings” (IM 194). 
Naming is not something that follows the event of emergence. Rather, naming, as 
originary saying, allows “the Being of beings” to be “opened up in the structure of its 
gatheredness… Human beings, as those who stand and act in logos, in gathering, are 
the gatherers” (IM 191). How can we think this idea of humans as gatherers? As we 
read and listen, we gather letters to make words, gather words to make sentences, and 
gather ideas to make sense. As we go through our lives we gather the hours to make a 
day, and through time we gather days and years and events to make a life. In so doing, 
we order these phenomena—the events of our lives—arranging them in our under-
standing to create narratives, stories filled with meaning, that serve to leave us looking 
good and being right. Likewise, for the pre-Socratics, the gathering of logos brought 
order to the upsurge of the sway: “Being as logos is originary gathering, not a heap 
or a pile where everything counts just as much and just as little—and for this reason, 
rank and dominance belong to Being” (IM 147). In logos, phenomena were arrayed as 
a world, with differences, limits, and degrees of  importance. 
But for the Greeks, there was an element in the gathering that we today have 
difficulty comprehending: as “the originally gathering gatheredness that constantly 
holds sway in itself,” logos “is constant gathering, the gatheredness of beings that 
stands in itself, that is, Being” (IM 141, 145 emphasis added). The Greeks were not 
merely gathering beings into the world, but were struggling to do so in a way that 
retained each being’s origin: Being, the sway, the background in which it had been 
concealed and out of which it had emerged in unconcealment. 
Legein for the Greeks gathered the unconcealed into the world as it was 
unconcealed. Only in this way can logos as authentic speaking be possible. It is the 
letting-be of what is unconcealed in the open region of its unconcealment; and in 
distinguishing this fragile phenomenon, Heidegger employs (as he often does) lan-
guaging whose poetic character respects its fragility:


=== END OF PAGE 387 ===

=== PAGE 388 ===

374
SPEAKING BEING
The saying and talking of mortals comes to pass from early
on as legein, laying. Saying and talking occur essentially as
the letting-lie-together-before of everything which, laid in 
unconcealment, comes to presence. (EGT 63)
T
[. . .] Such a letting-lie establishes whatever lies before us as 
lying-before. It establishes this as itself., i.e., a letting-lie-before 
of what does lie before us, gathered in the selfsameness of its 
lying-before [. . .]. This exceptional laying is the legein which
comes to pass as the logos. (EGT 66)
T
This was the challenge for the first philosophers: to bring Being—the realm of 
meaninglessness and possibility from which the meanings and possibilities were 
made distinct—to stand in the world: “Physis and logos are the same. Logos char-
acterizes Being in a new and yet old respect: that which is in being, which stands 
straight and prominently in itself, is gathered in itself and from itself, and holds itself 
in such gathering” (IM 145).  
“


=== END OF PAGE 388 ===

=== PAGE 389 ===



=== END OF PAGE 389 ===

=== PAGE 390 ===

376
SPEAKING BEING
When participants returned from the break at 1 pm, Wes and Kipp were on the platform.
WES (referring to a minor earthquake that happened during the break)
Did you notice that coming from empty and meaningless, an earthquake is just an earthquake?
(some participants raising their hands)
Okay. Wait a second. We’re going to extend an invitation to you that makes sense when you can 
come from dwelling in empty and meaningless. We invite you to a campaign, a campaign against 
reasonableness. We’re inviting you into a campaign to destroy reasonableness in your life.
(applause)
So we have a question for you so you can confront what the campaign would mean and what
it would look like in your life. Look now at the reasons you have for not participating in life. So 
you’re looking through the areas of your life where there has been no participation, and instead 
of participation, there have been reasons for not. You have to actually start going through your 
life. When you are looking from where we are in The Forum now, you can see things you didn’t
see before. And you’re looking at where there could have been participation, and there wasn’t
and isn’t. And all there is are reasons for not. What new openings are there for participation?
Preston, who spoke at length at the beginning of Session Two of Day Three, stood and took a micro-
phone.
PRESTON
I knew before I got here that I was not going to be allowed to take notes.
KIPP
Right.
PRESTON
This is like: I don’t know of a greater threat to me.
KIPP
An enormous threat.
PRESTON
I’m running my racket, but I’m running it like a coyote through the back roads. And I noticed
on the fi rst day that no one had said, “no notes.” We hadn’t gotten to the promises, so we were 
in the pre-promised land, and I’m making my notes. You know, nugget following nugget, which
I can eventually read later when my brain will at least serve me for that because I don’t trust my 
brain. So I’m suddenly confronted with the fact that I really haven’t promised that I’ll keep the 
promises, but I’ve been keeping them so far because that’s what I’m doing so far.
FORUM DAY FOUR: 
SESSION TWO


=== END OF PAGE 390 ===

=== PAGE 391 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
377
KIPP
You mean you’re not taking notes, so far.
PRESTON
I made a few notes in pen on my wrist when I just couldn’t bear it.
(laughter)r
KIPP
Really? You made notes on your wrist? Really?
PRESTON
And then I go out on the break and wash it very carefully. 
(laughter)r
It was a little bit like smoking dope as a kid in the bathroom, where you have to clear it out with
the spray, but everybody knows you can’t make such a sweet smell when you’re taking a shit. 
(laughter)r
But I’m here to keep my promises and I haven’t been taking notes. And I realize this is what 
I’ve been running in my life up until now. One of the elements of structure here is how I’ve 
survived, totally by taking notes: I have notebooks; I have reference books in my notebooks, but
I probably can’t fi nd them because I haven’t labeled them properly. So I noticed in a passing
thought that I’ve kept all these notes but I can’t access any of them very well. That’s not story,
that’s a fact. So I have given up what has kept me afl oat. And by yesterday I was willing to do it.
I’ve only made one note, just three words, which I washed off  before looking at it.
(laughter)r
And from what Werner said this morning, that is my apology. So I’ve been looking at what I 
haven’t been able to keep myself in, now that I haven’t got any notes, and feeling that some-
thing is—there is a piece that hasn’t been coming together for me yet, like many others here.
I was able to get my fi nger on the piece because I wasn’t taking notes about it. And the piece
was “boxes,” and I was helped by one of the people on staff  who said to me after the last session, 
“Structure is a great supporter of promises.” When you have structure, it helps you to stay on 
purpose with your promise. I began to see that the boxes are where you apply structure, where 
I apply structure. I went out and had a look at my life and looked at the cracks in the pavement, 
because that’s my way, and I saw a sign over a parking lot that said “validation.” It winks on 
twice and then goes black. I wondered how far the energy of this room extends?
(laughter)r
I realized that the stronger my stand in emptiness and absence of meaning; the stronger my 
stand in that place, the more I’ll be able to utilize structure. 
The Three Levels of Truth
Martin Heidegger’s purpose as a philosopher was to bring the truth 
of Being to presence in the human experience.  It is diff icult to 
imagine just what that would look like, or what it might make pos-
sible, since it has for the most part been missing for us; and when it
has shown up, it has not stuck around for long. Why?


=== END OF PAGE 391 ===

=== PAGE 392 ===

378
SPEAKING BEING
KIPP
The more you come from life being empty and meaningless.
PRESTON
Yes. It’s a total paradox. All you can do is what Werner seems to do, is just repeat it over and 
over and over again. And three people get up and he repeats it over and over again. I’m walk-
ing along and this thing goes: “validation.” And I see that there’s something for me inside that
space I’m trying to stand in now, that I’ve been instructed to stand in, rather than doing an
exercise. And what I fi nd in it is something in my own terminology, because I love language as
distinction—that is where I cross humbly with Werner’s path: that’s my martial art, my practice.
And I found that there was something already in that emptiness that didn’t leave it somehow 
and maybe it could stay with me and help me bridge my way back to that part of myself—it’s
what I would call trust and innocence, and what I mean by innocence for myself is not naïve,
it’s just readiness—kind of a readiness state—a trust I also reached yesterday. So in a way I’ve 
pulled the fl oor up under my feet another few inches by being with structure, by being willing 
to be boxed, by boxing myself. And it occurred to me—since that is something that hadn’t been 
brought up a lot in the talk—maybe it was something because of the time squeeze and the pres-
sures and what goes on could have had on another occasion, in another format, a little more 
time to it. And I thought that if that was what was missing for me and I could fi t it in, then I
could guess what Werner was going to do next.
KIPP
The danger of the conversation, Preston—I’m not saying the conversation is dangerous the way 
you are saying it, but the danger is you making that into an answer.
PRESTON
I would say it was just a thought. It was what happened in my head as I was watching the “vali-
dating” sign. I don’t take any of this personally.
KIPP
Or like an answer.
PRESTON
No, it’s just what is happening as I am doing some thinking rather than being thought.
KIPP
Very nice. Okay.
PRESTON
And the last thought about this. What had happened to me was a set of distinctions. I had made
choice after choice after choice so it seems the place I’m at in my Forum is being with choice.
Not making choice an answer even...
Heidegger says that Being comes to presence as Augenblick, a 
moment of vision—an all-at-once gestalt switch in which we leap
suddenly onto new ground, where everything is diff erent. But the 
gift  of Being comes with non-negotiable conditions. First, the leap
cannot be accomplished unless the appropriate time and space
are created for the necessary run-up. Second, the new ground will 
be revealed as the old ground, the familiar ground upon which we
have been standing all along, but will be apprehended in a pro-
foundly new light.  Third, in this new light, the ground is not solid 
in the way we have always counted on ground to be; therefore
we must open ourselves to a new level of uncertainty, which also 
means a new level of ontological freedom. The action of the run-
up is always the teasing-open of old ground, so that a background
can be revealed.
 For Heidegger then, and likewise for Werner Erhard, trans-
formed human existence already is; its freedom has always already 
been available to us. But we rarely experience its power because we 
have not appropriated it—that is, we have not authentically accepted
and taken ownership of our existence. “Being” is a fuzzy concept for 
us; it is not a distinct realm. Therefore the run-up occurs as a gradual 
process in which we distinguish the old ground—our current Being-
in-the-world—as itself, so that we can own it for what it is. This is
the essential first step in achieving transformation, and the process 
occupies the first three days of The Forum.
A fundamental distinction in this process is the distinction of 
distinction itself.f  In this section we will cut another path into that
clearing.
Aletheia
One of the terms by which Heidegger distinguished the ontolog-
ical dimension is the Greek word Aletheia, or unconcealment. 
This word, for Heidegger and for the pre-Socratics, says the free 
openness in which beings are first revealed. The term has oft en 
been understood as denoting truth; but this is not to be mistak-
en as the “truth” of our current everyday understanding, as the
correspondence of an assertion with its object; that kind of truth 
is at best a shadow of what is meant by this ancient Greek word.


=== END OF PAGE 392 ===

=== PAGE 393 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
379
KIPP
Yeah.
PRESTON
But being with it so that I can operate from the box I call choice. 
KIPP
When we get to this conversation about choice, being with choice, we’ll come back to that one. 
Okay. Anything more for you, Preston?
PRESTON
No.
KIPP
Thank you.
(applause)
KIPP
So, we’re asking you to look at where in your life you have had reasons for not participating,
that’s the question at hand. And we’re distinguishing this distinction called reasonableness.
BARRY
It’s been entirely reasonable for me to keep myself distinct from people. Separate, not distinct.
KIPP
Yeah, separate.
BARRY
There’s a sense of being protected, of protecting myself. I feel like I’m not going to get sucked 
into things that I don’t want to get sucked into. I choose the game; I choose the way it’s played. 
KIPP
By the way, you don’t choose it.
BARRY
I decide what game to play...
KIPP
You use the evidence that’s given to you by your racket, and examine that evidence, and the
product of that evidence has you do what you do. And the product of that evidence is “lots of 
reasons.”
When we are there with a being in the moment of its undistorted
emerging, prior to assertions—that begins to get at what is meant
by Aletheia: a free way of encountering beings that allows them to 
be the things they are.
However, according to Thomas Sheehan, in his book Making
Sense of Heidegger, there are not just two, but three ways in which
Heidegger treats Aletheia, which will prove useful in an analysis of 
The Forum’s methodology. We remind the reader, as we have done 
throughout this book, that we are talking about a realm that has 
no levels. When talking about the realm of Being, Werner Erhard 
has said, all we can do is lie (“All I Can Do Is Lie.”). But that does not 
mean we should stop talking, and Thomas Sheehan has opened
some interesting possibilities for thinking. Sheehan proposes that 
Aletheia may be thought of as having three levels—that is, that
there are three ways of understanding what Heidegger meant 
when dealing with the “truth”:
Aletheia 1, Aletheia 2, and Aletheia 3.
Aletheia 3 refers to the correctness of a statement—the 
correspondence of a proposition with the state of aff airs to which
it refers. This definition glosses many aspects of evaluation and 
judgment, of course, but it is what we generally mean when we 
use the word “truth” in our everyday conversations. Aletheia 3
also indicates the average level of truth we expect in our everyday 
coping in the world, and it is the kind of truth that operates within
our “stories.”
Aletheia 2 is the pre-propositional meaningful presence of 
things in the world, the realm of inescapable meaning in which
we live our lives. For human beings, everything means something, 
that is, can be understood as something. Aletheia 2 is the kind of 
truth that emerges when participants distinguish “what hap-
pened” as distinct from their story about what happened.
Aletheia 1 is existential openness, the realm of unspoken
meaninglessness. This is the context for the other two realms, and
Sheehan calls this context the “unique presence-by-absence of the 
thrown-open clearing” (Thomas Sheehan, Making Sense of Heideg-
ger 75). This is the groundless ground of our humanity, Being’s gift :
r
the Nothing.


=== END OF PAGE 393 ===

=== PAGE 394 ===

380
SPEAKING BEING
BARRY
Loads of them.
KIPP
Yes.
BARRY
And I noticed yesterday in the danger process that I took from that, that my experience of that, 
what I created was that my experience was shallow, that I was shallow, my emotional states in
both directions were. And... 
KIPP
You don’t have much range of participation for yourself?
BARRY
Yes, I inherently limit that. And the idea of terror, although I know it’s true, I didn’t even have a
direct experience of that, so I had an experience of not having an experience of that.
KIPP
In place of a reason for not having it...
BARRY
Well, up to that point, yes. And even at that point. I said “Okay, that’s a reason. And this is me, 
and this is now, and here I am, and let that be for the fi rst time.” And a big part of the story of 
the racket had been that I just don’t feel deep emotions.
KIPP
Yeah, “you know me. I just don’t feel them. Some people got ’em, some people don’t.”
BARRY
And I don’t like it but it’s safer than having them. So I got to “Okay that’s where I am.” And
kind of cooked along in it and noticed that for me my thoughts are like one of those signs that
gives you the news while you’re standing in line at the deli, that makes you dizzy when you 
watch it too long. 
KIPP
It’s not limited to you, by the way.
BARRY
And I noticed there was really no diff erence as they were coming by as they did, and by not
ascribing signifi cance to any of those thoughts and letting them be there, I just noticed that 
Erhard’s methodology of inquiry, a strategic recursive practice 
iterated in each conversation with each participant, discloses the
Being of human being beyond the everyday propositional level 
(Aletheia 3
(
). In order to accomplish this, the level of “truth” called 
Aletheia 3 must first be distinguished as itself—as the level of un-
f
committed understandings of the world: the justifications, reasons, 
explanations, and prescriptions regarding the circumstances of 
one’s life and the strategies enacted to deal with those circumstanc-
es, what in The Forum is distinguished as one’s story. It is to this 
level of truth that Erhard refers when he declares that he does not 
know the truth, as any statement taken as an assertion to be used 
in some way in-order-to already has lost any of its truth value.
In the process of distinguishing Aletheia 3 as Aletheia 3, as story, 
a further background becomes accessible as the background from 
which Aletheia 3 is disclosed. This further background is Aletheia 
2, which in the conversation of The Forum is the what happened. 
As the smokescreen of our crystallized stories dissipates, Aletheia 
2 becomes distinguished from the “truth” of Aletheia 3, the level of 
truth in which “what happened” has heretofore been held. What 
was formerly the “truth” becomes disclosed as an interpretation 
forgotten as such, an interpretation that can never reach the “what 
happened.” At this new level of truth, what happened becomes
d
opened up as what happened, and now unhinged, so to speak,
from the narrow meaning the story had framed it within. Thereby
whatever happened becomes open to be taken a multitude of ways; 
it becomes possible to see that there could be many ways to make 
“what happened” meaningful, and to see that we will never be able
to speak a single truth concerning what happened. 
What makes distinguishing Aletheia 3 and Aletheia 2 possible 
is the background of the unspoken realm of Being, Aletheia 1, the 
background of meaninglessness, of Nothing, in which our world of 
meaning arises. That is to say, the reiterative acts of distinguishing in 
language “story” and “what happened” already and always evokes 
“life is empty and meaningless, and it is empty and meaningless 
that life is empty and meaningless” as the background context, or 
clearing for meaningful presence. We cannot grasp the nature of a 


=== END OF PAGE 394 ===

=== PAGE 395 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
381
without saying anything, or directly about it, that I felt more intimate with the people that were
sharing in the group and that emotions were starting to well right up out of me. And I know I
can take that and be reasonable and say “Oh, that’s great, I’ll do this now all the time and I’ll
have these emotions and everything will be fi xed.” And hey, I’m feeling it.
KIPP
When you do.
BARRY
I am right now. I may not tonight or I may not tomorrow. Now I am.
KIPP
You always will when you do.
BARRY
I’m there.
KIPP
Thank you very much.
(applause)
So, we’re distinguishing this distinction called reasonableness. Is it so that in life you either 
have the results or the reasons for not having them? And is it also so that as a human being, the 
way it is to be a human being, is if you give yourself a suffi  cient reason that you also give equal 
weight to that? That’s enough reason for not having this result. So if the result doesn’t occur, 
where do you immediately look? At the reason why it didn’t. So we’re asking where in your life
do you have reasons for not participating. Please...
SANFORD
Well, sharing is one of them. For the fi rst day and a half in here I was sitting on a lot of shares,
I had lots of reasons, you know, the golden share, the whole bit. So now I have reasons for
sharing, so there’s really no way of getting away from either one. But beyond that, I’ve had 
reasons for not choosing a career, for not living into the full possibility of what life could be for 
me. Reasons for not keeping promises—made some promises to people back in Seattle about
being in communication with people in The Forum about various things around the work, and
just everywhere, everywhere I look. There are reasons for doing things and not doing it. When I
produce results I have reasons for getting the results. If I don’t get the results I have reasons for 
not getting them, but if I get results I have reasons for getting them. 
KIPP
Okay. Anything else?
truth except from a perspective beyond that truth, and that perspec-
tive must be created and discovered for oneself as one lives within
the rhetorical dialogue of The Forum as it unfolds. Participants of The
Forum are called, again and again, to stand in another perspective 
given by a level of truth altogether diff erent from the level from 
which life is ordinarily understood—as story, as Aletheia 3. However,
when someone speaks Being, names the primordial clearing that we
are, it can only be done at the level of “you do what you do and you 
don’t do what you don’t do.” The continuing creation and expan-
sion of this perspective—of unconcealment—is the work of Werner 
Erhard since the inception of the est Training.
t
But how does this unconcealment happen in The Forum?
We call attention to the environment of authenticity that has
been created in The Forum room over the past three days—first,
through disclosing the fundamental inauthenticity of human
beings through the discursive acts of distinguishing story and
what happened, racket, and so on; second, through disclosing
sharing as a particular way of communicating; and third, through 
the authentic sharing itself that has emerged in the participants’
interactions with Erhard and the other Forum leaders. 
In this environment, a new level of unconcealment becomes 
possible as stories begin to be heard as stories—even by the indi-
viduals telling them, those whose lives have been shaped and lim-
ited by the “truth” of their stories. Too angry and afraid to reveal
it, Marsha had maintained the deception of having it all together,
which began to “make her thin”; Angel decided as a child that she
would be the most caring person in the world as a way to over-
come her fear of not really caring at all; Mike became stupid and in
need of the help of others as a response to experiencing himself as
incompetent; Jane hides out to avoid experiencing the embarrass-
ment of rejection due to being worthless. These are disclosures, 
openings only possible from a point of view from which story and 
what happened are distinct and uncollapsed. Thus, as the shaping
power of the stories begins to waver, the presence of the underly-
ing circumstances emerges with a new clarity; simultaneously, a 
new freedom to be emerges.


=== END OF PAGE 395 ===

=== PAGE 396 ===

382
SPEAKING BEING
SANFORD
Yeah. The question was reasons for not participating. I have a lot of reasons for not participating
in the assisting program.
KIPP
Everybody know he’s referring to the people who have been running microphones and man-
aging this entire program? Those are assistants in a program. You’ll have an opportunity to
acknowledge them later. Thank you. Go ahead.
SANFORD
So, I’m not sure there’s a lot of value going into what those reasons are, but the cost of having 
those reasons instead of assisting is that, number one, I don’t have available to me whatever
would be there for me out of assisting and I’m ripping everybody else off  from what I could 
contribute by doing that.
KIPP
Yeah. What you’ve got is your reasons.
SANFORD
Yeah. And if I continue to indulge myself in that, at the end of my life that’s what I’ll have is all
the reasons for what I did and what I didn’t do instead of powerful results.
KIPP
And that’s what most people got.
SANFORD
Yeah. Probably what everybody’s got; possibly what everybody’s got.
KIPP
Yeah, well, you talk to a lot of people and pretty much this is what people tell you about their 
life: “I would have, if...”
f
SANFORD
Yeah, that’s my story for sure.
KIPP
Sanford, thank you. Anabeth?
(applause)
ANABETH
The reasons for not participating go back a long way. So I can see that now. Earlier when Werner
was talking about when we were six or fi ve or four, whenever that happened, and my reaction
Fallenness
Nevertheless, stories have power. The meaningfulness of these 
interpretations has provided the practical understanding by which
we have coped with the circumstances in our lives. As Erhard puts 
it in Session Three of Day Four, our actions are always in a dance 
with the way the world occurs. But while we remain immersed in
the oblivion of Aletheia 3, the dance is inauthentic. We do not own 
the reality we are living because we have not chosen it; nor have 
we chosen not to choose it. We have merely fallen into the drift 
t
of the dance that has been thrown-open for us; and rather than 
confront the situation, we flee into the tranquillizing distractions
of the “they.” 
The inevitable forgetfulness of the “they” self—the forget-
ting of Being that follows the unconcealment of one’s story as a 
story—is what Heidegger termed “fallenness.” Thomas Sheehan 
in Making Sense of Heidegger writes that fallenness is a kind of 
r
forgetting that results from focusing on what is meaningful to 
us: “the more I focus on the meaningful, the more I forget that I 
am the thrown-open clearing that makes meaning possible and 
necessary” (116): we forget Aletheia 1 and Aletheia 2 and devolve
to the order of truth given by fallenness, that is, by Aletheia 3. 
The conversation of The Forum is designed to bring the partici-
pants to Nothing, the thrown-open clearing of Aletheia 1, which is
possible only through undergoing the experience of the dialogue 
for oneself as it moves backwards from truth as Aletheia 3 to 
Aletheia 2, which already brings to presence Aletheia 1. Again and 
again and again.
For instance, during his conversation with Jodie during Ses-
sion Two of Day Two, Erhard brought Jodie and all the participants 
to think and
k
experience for themselves these three levels. To Jodie’s 
recognition of her story as a story—that boys did not like her when 
she was a little girl—Erhard said, “a story is just a story”—a point of 
view of Aletheia 3 only granted us when “standing in” or “coming
from” Aletheia 2. When Erhard continues to say that “The ‘what 
happened’ is what’s true or not. It did or it didn’t,” he is speaking 
from the point of view of the thrown-open clearing given by Ale-
theia 1 as it regards Aletheia 2 and Aletheia 3. Erhard continued: 


=== END OF PAGE 396 ===

=== PAGE 397 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
383
to that was: “Oh we have to do this again? I have to go back to when I was six-years-old?” But it
didn’t take very long for me to see that that’s where I was, for a long time. And I always have a
reason for why I’m not there. But I really am there. So it goes back to an incident that happened, 
not when I was six, but when I was like twelve or thirteen, and I just wasn’t there for my sister. I
just wasn’t there and I had wonderful reasons for it. The best reasons. I was always the best kid, 
the best sister; so I never got anything for it: I just wasn’t there.
KIPP
You lived inside a story called “I’m the best kid,” which gave you a justifi cation for anything that 
happened that was inconsistent with that.  
ANABETH
Right. So yesterday, I called my son, who is twenty-one. I have four children, but he’s the only 
one I called because I got that he could listen to it, because he’s had an experience somewhat 
like The Forum.
KIPP
This is another reason by the way. More crap, right?
ANABETH
The reason I called Johnny?
KIPP
“Well, you know Johnny, he’s like that.”
ANABETH
No, no, no. That’s not it.
KIPP
Okay.
ANABETH
I called Johnny because I wanted to tell him that I was proud of him. And when I couldn’t reach
him, I thought well, “I’ll call one of my other kids.”
KIPP
Is it true that you couldn’t reach him or that you didn’t reach him?
ANABETH
I did not reach him. He was not on the other end of the phone call. He was out. So I called another 
number where he was supposed to be, and he was out at that number too. So I just kept calling
all day long until I fi nally got him woken up to come to the phone. I called him: I could tell him
how proud I was of him, and for calling me and telling me about how he learned about his act,
If your listening is that somebody doesn’t like
you, everything they say is an expression of not
liking you [Aletheia 3]. If we pushed Jodie hard 
enough she could go back and remember that
“oh yeah, one of them was trying to be nice to
me once” [Aletheia 2]. 
“
Aletheia 2, then, is the meaningfulness we attend to, where some-
thing or someone occurs as meaningful in some way to us, which
in turn gives us our way to be with that something or someone.
Forgetting the as locks us into the fallenness of Aletheia 3: as
becomes is. Remembering the as transforms the is. This is the work
of The Forum: the disclosure of truth as unconcealment, and in the
clearing granted by Nothing the generation of a new possibility of 
Being for human beings becomes available. ■


=== END OF PAGE 397 ===

=== PAGE 398 ===

384
SPEAKING BEING
and I didn’t know what that was then, but I know what it is now. And that I don’t think I was 
there for him, when I was divorced, and all the time from when he was three until he was four-
teen, I don’t think I was there for him, and I just wanted to tell him that. And he got it. He just 
got it. He said, “I’m glad you know that.” And I have a lot of reasons that I could give you for
why I wasn’t there for him. But the fact of the matter is I just wasn’t there for him. I just didn’t 
participate. The list is a mile long.
KIPP
It’s called your life.
ANABETH
Right, all the things I didn’t participate in. So now I have a question. Can I ask you a question?
KIPP
Sure.
ANABETH
The question is: So if you know that you were a six-year-old for all this time, but... and you’ve 
worked with that and stayed with that...
KIPP
In other words, you can see your racket.
ANABETH
You can see your racket, and so you don’t have that anymore, so then... but you have some-
thing...
KIPP (responding to several participants laughing)
By the way—I think someone was laughing in the background, when you said, “you don’t have 
that anymore.”
ANABETH
You have it.
KIPP
It’s still there...
ANABETH
It’s still there.
KIPP
...at all times and under all circumstances, ready to use your life.
ANABETH (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 398 ===

=== PAGE 399 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
385
ANABETH
So it’s just there.
KIPP
Yeah, it’s just there, and sometimes it uses your life.
ANABETH
Well yeah, that’s the answer.
KIPP
What’s missing for you is any choice about it.
ANABETH (pausing thoughtfully
(
)
What’s missing for me is any choice about it.
KIPP
Yeah, so far in your life, your life has not been a chronicle of choosing whether you’re going to 
do your racket or not. Your racket used you, without choice.
ANABETH
Right. I did not choose. Right.
KIPP
So, what’s missing for you is a distinction called “choice.” See, when you come from empty and
meaningless, into life, you’re left with a choice. But we haven’t distinguished choice yet; we’re 
still working on reasonableness. Can you see that that’s missing for you?
ANABETH
Yes. Okay.
KIPP
Anabeth: thank you very much.
(applause)
CLAUDIA
I saw that what stops me from participating is the fear that I have of all you people, which...


=== END OF PAGE 399 ===

=== PAGE 400 ===

386
SPEAKING BEING
KIPP
It’s not fear. Remember, fear is inside the box of the racket. Fear is the emotion consistent with
the racket. It’s not the fear. It’s the racket. And the racket has those emotions. It has the feelings
consistent with that racket. Yeah.
CLAUDIA
What I saw in the danger process yesterday was that the reason I was afraid of other people, I 
was afraid of everybody looking at me. One of my rackets is handling everything so that in my 
relationships or at my job, everything is so set that people aren’t looking at me.
KIPP
What do you mean “looking at you”?
CLAUDIA
I mean looking at me with your eyes.
KIPP
You’re afraid of people looking at you. 
CLAUDIA
Yes.
KIPP
Got it.
CLAUDIA
So, that has really stopped me from participating. This year I had lots of opportunities to speak
in front of people, and although one on one people have told me that I am articulate, and some-
times entertaining, I thought I would be good at speaking in front of groups of people and I was
miserable at it. I didn’t do very well and they criticized me in feedback.
KIPP
Or: You did what you did.
CLAUDIA
I did what I did. I didn’t enjoy it...
KIPP
You did what you did and people said what they said. The problem is you listened to them.
CLAUDIA
Right. So I realized that I stayed away from things that would cause me to stand up in front of 
people to speak.


=== END OF PAGE 400 ===

=== PAGE 401 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
387
KIPP
Do you understand what she’s saying? She says your life is designed by your case, by your rack-
et. You get a life inside your case. And that’s your life. You don’t do things that are inconsistent
with your racket.
CLAUDIA
Right, and the other thing... The reason that I don’t want anybody to look at me is because, um,
can I say “I’m afraid”? I’m afraid of being unattractive. And so I’m always unattractive from the
context of being attractive or unattractive...
KIPP
Is that how you say it to yourself, is that “you’re unattractive,” or what?
CLAUDIA
No. I don’t want anyone to look at me because they’re going to notice or judge and decide 
whether they fi nd me attractive or not.
KIPP
Well, what do you think? Are you attractive?
CLAUDIA
Well, seeing that life is empty and meaningless...
(laughter)r
KIPP
Good. See all the service those people paid to let her speak like this?
CLAUDIA
So, I attract people when I attract people and I don’t when I don’t.
KIPP
Yeah.
(applause)
CLAUDIA
And the other thing that it has cost me from participating in, and what I’ve been noticing here is...
WES
Notice how the signifi cance of all that has disappeared: this whole thing about attraction. Most 
relationships... how signifi cant can a relationship really be when most relationships are like two
slot machines face-to-face waiting for a simultaneous jackpot?


=== END OF PAGE 401 ===

=== PAGE 402 ===

388
SPEAKING BEING
(laughter)r
CLAUDIA
So the other way I didn’t participate, because I had being unattractive and attracting people 
caught up with one aspect of being female, of being a woman I should say.
KIPP
Aren’t they the same thing?
CLAUDIA
Female is more scientifi c for me.
KIPP
That’s fi ne. You’ve got to educate me. I’m stupid.
CLAUDIA
So it stopped me from enjoying certain aspects of being a woman.
KIPP
Yes, this is the important part.
CLAUDIA
And now it kind of unhooked a lot of those experiences from being an attractive woman. I 
could just be a woman, be a person, enjoy those pleasures of...
KIPP
Well, you’re not going to use that conversation to not participate in your own life is what I hear.
CLAUDIA
Yeah.
KIPP
Well done, Claudia. Thank you very much.
(applause)
KIPP
See, where this is really going to be evident for you is in your conversations with other
people. If you notice, if this strikes true, then put it on: that a lot of your conversations with
other people are, that you get people to buy your reasons. What you call your friends, your 
pals, are people that buy your reasons. So when you don’t do what you say you’re going to


=== END OF PAGE 402 ===

=== PAGE 403 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
389
do, then you have your pals there, and you go up to them and you say, “you know that thing 
I said I was going to do? Well I didn’t do it, but you know what happened? You know how 
my mother... and I was busy, I got real afraid, and I didn’t feel real good, either. You under-
stand, right?” And of course my pal’s job—if he’s my friend, my buddy—his job is to buy 
my reasons. Why? So when he doesn’t do what he said he was going to do, he’s got his mark
all set up. So he comes to me and says “Hey Kipp, remember that thing I said I was going to 
do? Well I didn’t do it because...” What a lot of your friendships are based on is buying each 
other’s reasons—interlocking conspiracies of disloyalty. That’s what you call your friends:
people who buy your crap. See, if somebody comes along and sticks your crap back in your
face, you get offended. Those are the people who are going to make some kind of difference 
in your life. The ones that are straight with you. You’ve got the people in your life trained to 
not be straight with you. You better find some people in life to be straight with you—they 
aren’t going to be so reasonable.
WES
One of the things you can count on in the seminar program is the conversations you’re going to
have there are going to be very unreasonable.
(shifting)
So, we’re practicing a new conversation that involves the destruction of reasons and the creation
of participation. I want you to turn to the person next to you and practice this conversation. So 
get a partner... 
Participants organized themselves into pairs with Wes assisting them.
WES
Here’s what you’re going to say: “In this part of my life I didn’t participate, and these are 
the reasons I’ve used.” And while saying this, see if you’re willing to give up these reasons,
and if you are, then create some way of saying how you’re now going to participate there.
You’re creating a commitment to participate. You’ll notice you don’t even need to give a
reason for it. You’re just sort of saying you will and you’re confronting the reasons for not. 
Listen for the possibility of participating in life rather than to the reasons for not. Pick who
will go first. Ready? Begin.
Participants shared with each other for several minutes. Wes directed participants to provide feed-
back, then to switch roles. Wes then gave the participants another opportunity to share once again 
with their partners, after having reiterated the instructions, emphasizing the requirement to clearly 
state what the reasons were for not participating in life (“why you shouldn’t, wouldn’t, or couldn’t...”),
and to express willingness to give up the reasons.
WES
Stop. Please acknowledge the person who shared with you. We’ve begun a conversation for 
participating in life. One of the things we want to deal with is where people get stuck in their


=== END OF PAGE 403 ===

=== PAGE 404 ===

390
SPEAKING BEING
lives, how they get stuck in their lives, and a way of shifting that. The fundamental place where
people get stuck is in their problems. You know the problems you have in life? You can have a 
breakthrough in the matter of your problems. Parts of the conversation will be fairly abstract.
You want to give up your considerations about abstractions. To get a sense of what your prob-
lems are, look at places in your life where you are stuck. You’ll notice that that’s a place you 
never would in a million years fi nd it possible to participate. There’s a real problem there. Get
up some of your real problems for yourself. What are some synonyms for problems? Looking at 
a real problem in life?
Participants shouted out various answers: diffi  culty, stopped, upset, stuck, barrier, worries, suff ering, 
concerns, burden, hassle.
WES
Fundamentally what a problem is, is something is stopped: Something is stuck. The way in
which you are dealing with it is: There is a stuckness. There’s not movement. When you’re
moving, you’re not stuck. You may be dealing with something. It may be diffi  cult to deal with 
but it doesn’t occur as a problem. Problems are places you are ineff ective. And you are ineff ec-
tive, obviously, because of circumstances, reasons, situations, and so forth. The fi rst thing to 
look at is where problems occur. You can’t be eff ective with something if you don’t know its 
location. So if I try to move the chair and I think the chair is here...
(indicating a location on the stage in which there is not a chair)r
...the chair’s not going to be moved. So we have to get where problems occur. A problem 
seems to occur in the world, doesn’t it? Think of your problems: Somehow the problem is out 
there. And that’s what makes it so diffi  cult to deal with: It’s out of your control. And out there
where it lives is very big. And fundamentally that’s the thing that makes people ineff ective
with problems, because problems don’t occur out there. There are no problems, as problems, 
out there. “I’ve got cancer. It’s in my body.” The cancer may be in your body, but the problem
you’ve got with the cancer isn’t in your body. “My car is a piece of crap. That’s a real problem
for me.” There’s no problem with your car. The cancer as a problem, your car as a problem, your 
children as a problem, are not out there. Problems don’t occur in the world as problems. Rocks
don’t have problems, even the ones that get kicked and fall down the hill. That is not a problem 
for the rock. See if you can point at where problems are. Take a shot. 
(indicating his mouth)
I didn’t say there are no problems. There are problems. They just don’t occur out there. They occur 
over here. They are in your speaking and your listening. Or more rigorously, problems are in lan-
guaging. No languaging, no problems. The home of problems is languaging. The home of reality,
for life for human beings, is in languaging. The occurrence “problems” occurs in languaging. 
Rocks don’t speak and listen, and so don’t have the problems human beings have as problems.
PAULA
Is languaging and distinguishing the same thing? What about signing?
WES (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 404 ===

=== PAGE 405 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
391
WES
They are close enough for now. People who sign are participating in languaging. Here’s what
I’m including in languaging: picturing, signing, speaking, music-ing: that whole range of 
human activities in which communication takes place. The easiest thing for us to talk about is
speaking and listening. 
PAULA
What about touching?
WES
What about touching?
PAULA
To me, touching can be communicating.
WES
It can be, and it may not be...
PAULA
Are you including it...?
WES
...if it’s an intentional communication.
PAULA
Okay.
(sits down)
WES
Okay, so problems occur in languaging. Is there anyone who cannot see that? Clear enough.
Close enough... for government work. 
(laughter)r
DAVID
I’m not really clear that the problem is in languaging.
WES
Yeah. Where is it? Give me a problem you got?
DAVID
Fully participating in the projects that I do. Getting excited by the projects.


=== END OF PAGE 405 ===

=== PAGE 406 ===

392
SPEAKING BEING
WES
There are two things there: fully participating and getting excited.
DAVID
Getting really excited about the projects I’m involved in.
WES
“I do projects. I’m not excited. That’s a problem for me.” Is that how it goes?
DAVID
Yes.
WES
See the languaging there?
DAVID
Yes.
WES
That’s where the problem is.
DAVID
Thank you.
WES
You’re welcome.
(laughter; David sits)
So now that we’ve put it into the domain of languaging, we have some access to them. If you can
locate problems where they are, that is to say, in languaging, you now have an access to dealing 
with problems that will allow for a breakthrough in problems. We’re now going to deal with the 
real breakthrough in problems. This is what you all need to get is the next thing I deal with. I 
deal with a little bit more, but this is it. You want to fi nd the specifi c box... I want you to imagine: 
Languaging has many boxes. Make believe: Many boxes in languaging; many possibilities for 
things to occur in within languaging. We want to fi nd the specifi c box that problems occur in. 
Problems occur in one box only for human beings. It doesn’t show up as a box, because people
think their problems are “out there,” shows up like “out there.” But now that you know that it
shows up in a box in languaging, we have to fi nd the box. Knowing the box will give us some 
power with regard to our problems. It’ll actually blow the whole thing open. 
Wes moved to the chalkboard, drew a square, and wrote “problems” inside it.


=== END OF PAGE 406 ===

=== PAGE 407 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
393
So, here are problems. Whatever problem you got occurs here, in languaging. What is the name 
of the box that problems come in? 
PARTICIPANT
Declaration.
WES
No. Ultimately, yes, okay? But you’re a little too advanced for us. I want to know the specifi c
kind of declaration that problems occur in.
(referring to participants with yellow name tags, who are there taking The Forum for the fi rst time)
I want some yellows to answer this. I don’t want anybody “remembering” this.
A participant named Paul stood, the participant who, like Jake, had his “foot nailed to the fl oor” 
concerning inauthenticity in a dialogue with Erhard in Session Two of Day One.
PAUL
You talked about being a problem. We talked about it being an obstacle before. What fi rst occurs
to me as the name of the box that problems come in is the problem box.
WES
No. Well, yes, but not useful.
PAUL
But what is the problem is really what the problem is and the problem is trying to label it. I
would think that it’s an obstacle and all the other things people would say it is.
WES
It’s not a box that shows itself to you. You remember we did that discussion? You remember that 
“danger interaction”? The thing we did yesterday?
PAUL
How could I forget?
WES
Remember, we had a lot of stuff  go on the board. Then I proposed the possibility that there was 
a frame around all of it, that all of it was variations of, like a meme, of “Life is dangerous for
human beings.” We’re looking for some statement like that. What is the statement that...
PAUL
You are the problem. You become the problem. Within that framework that’s...


=== END OF PAGE 407 ===

=== PAGE 408 ===

394
SPEAKING BEING
WES
Yeah. Okay. That’s not how problems occur. Problems don’t occur for people “I am the problem.”
PAUL
Okay.
WES
When my car is broken, the car is the problem. And there’s a way my conversation occurs, my 
relationship to all of that.
PAUL
Okay.
WES
You can just keep looking. You got it started well, though.
PAUL
Um, so you’re saying that the box in which problem occurs has a name to it...
WES
A statement in which it occurs has a particular name to it. The conversation occurs in “hu-
man being.” It’s the already always conversation. You know, you’re born into languaging, and 
languaging gives you your life, reality, and problems: Once a problem comes your way, there’s 
an already always way it occurs for you. That’s the box: the already always way it occurs for you. 
You have nothing to do with it. You didn’t choose it...
PAUL
It’s the rainstorm.
WES
It’s the rainstorm. We want to get a sense of the already always way it occurs for you. This is one 
of those “too simple for complicated minds...”
PAUL (laughs)
Okay, then maybe the problem is your racket.
WES
No, that’s an explanation of it maybe. We’re looking for the statement.
PAUL
The statement that contains the problem...


=== END OF PAGE 408 ===

=== PAGE 409 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
395
WES
That tells them the occurrence. That gives them the occurrence.
PAUL
Them?
WES
Whatever problems you’ve got.
PAUL
I don’t know.
WES
That’s a good place to be right now. We’ll call on someone else.
NICOLE
Through defi nition...
WES
No, no, no, this is all too descriptive. There is a statement...
NICOLE
This is a problem.
WES
Okay. That’s not how problems occur. You got a problem? Give me a problem: a good one.
NICOLE
My thesis.
WES
Is a problem? There’s no movement on it?
NICOLE
Correct.
WES
You’re dealing with all the “hunnahunnahunna.” “What am I gonna do?”
NICOLE
Right. Nine years.


=== END OF PAGE 409 ===

=== PAGE 410 ===

396
SPEAKING BEING
WES
Nine years, yes.
(laughter)r
So Nicole. “My thesis not getting done” does not occur like: “It’s a problem, my thesis isn’t 
getting done.” Right?
NICOLE
Right.
WES
Yeah. It occurs some way. How does it occur?
NICOLE
Through being stuck.
WES
No, you just explained it. Not bad. But explained it. I want the occurrence. What’s your relation-
ship to the thesis not getting done? Talk to me about it. Tell me... what goes on with you about 
it?
NICOLE
Oh I use a lot of reasons.
WES
Right. You’ve got reasons. And lying. What else?
NICOLE
And disbelief.
WES
And why is that going on with you? Why do you have to give all those reasons for it and lies
about it and disbeliefs about it?
NICOLE
So it won’t get done.
WES
No.
NICOLE
Ask the question again?


=== END OF PAGE 410 ===

=== PAGE 411 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
397
WES
Yeah. You give reasons for not doing it.
NICOLE
Yes.
WES
And lies about it. Right?
(Nicole nods)
And there’s other things that you’re not doing that you don’t feel the need to give reasons for
and lies about.
NICOLE
Yes.
WES
How come you feel the need to do it in this thing, which is a problem and not in the other thing?
NICOLE
Because it has to get done.
WES
Close. Close. “It has to get done” has got some quality in it. It’s like that. Now, see, there’s some
things that have to get done and they’re getting done. This other thing has to get done, and it’s 
not getting done. And what’s your relationship to that?
NICOLE
I make myself wrong.
WES
Yeah. Now it’s closer. Someone or something is being made wrong. You see that?
NICOLE
Yeah.
WES
That’s at the source of a problem. The box that problems come in is called shouldn’t be. 
(writing “shouldn’t be” above the square on the chalkboard)
“I’m not getting my thesis done”: that shouldn’t be. “There’s something wrong here.” “I should be thin; 
I keep eating. That shouldn’t be.” It’s not like, “hey, I’m fat, dig it.” It’s not like “Hey stupid-ass thesis. 
Primordial Metaphor: Clearing
Earth—the planet—existed prior to the emergence of human be-
ings. The world as clearing did not “exist,” however, since “world”
d
is a meaningful phenomenon, and meaning emerged on the planet 
concurrently with human beings.
One interesting view of the way the world came into being 
was proposed by the eighteenth-century Italian philosopher 


=== END OF PAGE 411 ===

=== PAGE 412 ===

398
SPEAKING BEING
I’ll just keep lying to people so that they keep giving me grant money. I don’t care.” But no, that’s not
your relationship to your thesis, but it could be. You wouldn’t have a problem: You’d have a scam. 
(laughter)r
What turns it into a problem is “it shouldn’t be.” “I should be doing this thing and I’m not 
getting it done.” “Not getting it done” shouldn’t be. The box that problems occur in is “shouldn’t 
be.” It’s kind of obvious, right?
NICOLE
Yeah.
WES
You’re waiting for the heavens to part. They’re not going to part; you just may get a powerful 
and profound insight that may let you get your damn thesis done.
NICOLE
True.
WES
Can you see that the occurrence “not getting thesis done” occurs “shouldn’t be”? That whole 
thing?
NICOLE
Yeah.
WES
Great. And where does “shouldn’t be” occur? Does “shouldn’t be” occur in the thesis?
NICOLE
No.
WES
Does “shouldn’t be” occur in the ceiling?
NICOLE
No.
WES
No. “Shouldn’t be” occurs where?
(Nicole points to her mouth)
Very good Nicole. Thanks.
Giambattista Vico. Like Martin Heidegger, Vico perceived a lost power 
in the thinking of the ancients. His interest in the thinking of the 
“first men,” those who shaped the early use of language, anticipated 
Heidegger’s persistent attempt to reconstruct the understanding of 
the pre-Socratic Greek thinkers. Like Heidegger, Vico understood that 
he was entering shadowy territory: it is beyond our power, he said, 
“to enter into the vast imagination of those first men, whose minds 
were not in the least abstract, refined, or spiritualized, because they 
were entirely immersed in the senses, buff eted by the passions, 
buried in the body” (The New Science 118). 
But his exploration of this realm led him to develop a theory 
of primordial metaphor that resonates with Heidegger’s distinc-
r
tion of originary naming. Metaphor, for Vico, was based in identity
rather than similarity (James M. Edie, Speaking and Meaning: The
Phenomenology of Language 166). It was a theory of first thought;
according to the scholar Donald Phillip Verene, Vico proposed that 
the mind’s cardinal act was “a transference or bearing of meaning 
from sensation as placeless, momentary flux to the fixation of sen-
sation as a god.” Thus, through metaphor, the beings were brought 
into Being. Says Verene: “Metaphor can be understood as likeness 
or similarity only if we ignore its role in relation to the is. To regard 
the constructive power of metaphor as based on its analogical
capacity is also to presuppose its primordial power to construct 
the is” (Vico’s Science of Imagination 174).
There was, then, a moment at the dawn of time when hu-
mans brought forth beings through the creation of metaphors. On 
this view, whether we recognize it or not, we are already always 
thinking and speaking from within the metaphors that have 
been constructed and then passed down in our tradition, meta-
phors that generate assumptions about what is possible in being 
human. The philosopher Richard Rorty has proposed that what 
we should be doing as thinking beings is using up the metaphors 
that we have inherited, and creating new ones. Not to do so, says 
Rorty, is to worship the dead metaphors of our ancestors (Contin-
gency, Irony, and Solidarity 20). The work of Martin Heidegger and 
Werner Erhard may be seen as the creation of new metaphors.
An important Heideggerian metaphor that Erhard has adapted 
for use in his own work is the term clearing. “Clearing” is a metaphor 
WES (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 412 ===

=== PAGE 413 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
399
(applause)
“Shouldn’t be” is the box that problems come in for human beings. The already always existing
box you’re given when you’re born—you’re born and they slap you on the ass and they hand you 
a box “this shouldn’t be.” Yeah, that’s the party. Someone’s good idea. I don’t know. And now 
you’ve got this box and you put some of your junk in it, and the question is, “how come you love 
that box?” Yeah, you were given the box, but you really love it. Like you have some fascination 
and addiction to “shouldn’t be.” Do you have any sense that it may relate to your racket?
(laughter)r
Think about it. Rackets love problems and problems love rackets. They’re natural. They’re a fi t.
They’re a couple. Rackets and problems fi t together: a marriage made in heaven. Do you think 
a racket would be any good without some juicy problems in which to make somebody wrong?
You think a racket would stay around without any problems? She has a racket with her thesis.
Her racket loves the thesis. You’re fat and you want to lose weight and you don’t have a racket 
about it, you lose weight. Or you say “the hell with it” and just accept being overweight. There’s 
no problem having no money, unless it “shouldn’t be.” Some people give away all their money 
so that they can be free. They make money “shouldn’t be.” Your problems are a function of 
“shouldn’t be,” and you get to say what “shouldn’t be.” The availability “shouldn’t be” comes
with languaging, but the specifi c use of it: That’s you. It nails your foot to the fl oor, and then
you don’t have to be responsible for going anywhere, so that’s kind of good.
(walking in a circle as if his foot is “nailed to the fl oor”)”
“Oh God! My car won’t start. I can’t get to work. I’ll never get promoted. I’m a failure. My moth-
er was right. She’s always right, the bitch. I was right to make her wrong. She didn’t lend me
the money for the car I really need. Don’t you understand?” People love their problems. When
people get attached to their problems they carry them around forever, like this:
(Wes holds onto one of the director’s chairs and drags it as he walks slowly across the stage)
They bring them to parties. “How’s it going?”
(laughter)r
People never know what to talk about when they’re confronted by being, so they talk about 
their problems. “Hey, did I tell you about my problem?”
(laughter)r
Some people become PhDs in their problem. “Oh, I’ve fi nally understood it.” Some people fi nd a
therapist they pay to listen. Therapists love people who love their problems. Then they analyze it.
(examining an imaginary object)
“Well, this particular one I’ve got is gray.” 
for human being, a constitutive designation for the Being-in-the-world
of Dasein. Such metaphors, introduced into a tradition, shape the way
we understand ourselves and our world. In the Cartesian model that 
has dominated our Western tradition for several centuries, Dasein is 
the self-certain thinking subject—the cogito of “Cogito, ergo sum”—and 
the opening for the world (and for Being) is as an “object,” or cogi-
tatum. If Dasein is that specific development of subjective self-con-
sciousness referred to as an identity, the opening for Being is whatever
y
is allowed by that particular identity’s value and truth structure.
In these perspectives, what is determinative is that Dasein
itself—as cogito, or subject, or identity—“‘gets into the picture’ in 
precedence over whatever is.” Whatever is, is forced “back into
this relationship to oneself as the normative realm” (“AWP” in QCT
129). The world becomes my “picture” of it, and Being is cut to fit
that picture. The world, in other words, is all about me.
In contrast to these perspectives, Heidegger proposes the 
metaphor clearing, a metaphor which, as Michael E. Zimmerman 
points out, has been implicit in the Cartesian model all along:
“Modern philosophy posits a gap between subject and object
because it has failed to notice that a temporal clearing (transcen-
dence) is needed for subject and object to present themselves in 
the first place” (Eclipse of the Self 25, emphasis added). In Heide-
gger’s model, absent the normative self-referring subject, there is
simply the clearing itself, and the lighting of whatever is:
In the midst of beings as a whole an open
place occurs. There is a clearing, a lighting. 
Thought of in reference to what is, to beings,
this clearing is in a greater degree than are
beings. This open center is therefore not
surrounded by what is; rather, the lighting 
center itself encircles all that is, like the
Nothing which we scarcely know. That which 
is can only be, as a being, if it stands within 
and stands out within what is lighted in this
clearing. [. . .] The nature of truth is, in itself, 
the primal conflict in which that open center is 
won. . . . (“OWA” in PLT 53, 55)
“


=== END OF PAGE 413 ===

=== PAGE 414 ===

400
SPEAKING BEING
And they never get that this “understanding it,” and “analyzing it,” and this “studying it,” has only 
one problem to it: They’ve still got “it.” So, how to let the problem go? Have it disappear? How to
let the problem disappear? That’s where the discussion is headed. Wake up! We’re coming to a good
part. I promise. Well, if problems occur in languaging, and the specifi c languaging that problems
occur in is “shouldn’t be,” how about trying out a new languaging? How about creating? You know 
this is already given, so you’ll have to confront it ongoingly. Your racket will continue on after The 
Forum, I promise. And its love for problems will continue on after The Forum, I promise. And your 
fascination with problems stuck to your racket will continue on after The Forum, I promise. But 
here’s the possibility in what I am saying. You can confront it: In the presence of it, you can take 
your problem, and transform it by confronting the box it already comes in, and allowing a new 
box—putting it into a new box—intentionally putting it into a new box. So I’m going to give you a 
name of a new box you could put your problem in. This is not the truth. Problems “shouldn’t be”?
Here’s the question you have to confront: Who made you the judge? God’s happy, what’s your prob-
lem? Who made you the judge, the ultimate decider of what shouldn’t be in life? Not a lot of power 
in that. So try this one on. Put a new conversation around the actual problems that you’ve got, like a 
possibility. And the conversation I’m inviting you to put around them is: In life there are problems. 
Wes erased “shouldn’t be” and wrote “in life there are problems” over the top of the box with the word 
“problems” inside it.
WES (continuing)
Simple enough. In life there are problems. Not: Life’s about no problems. When problems
shouldn’t be, the conclusion is that a great life is a life without problems. That’s nonsense! A life 
without problems is a lousy life. It’s a stinky life. You want a life without problems? We have a 
little operation we can perform on you; you would have to do it in Mexico, though. We’ll remove 
all your internal organs and suspend you in tepid water. That’s a life without problems. Power-
ful people are judged by their problems. The problem with you is, your problems are small and
crappy—and the same ones over and over. You’re boring. She’s been dealing with this crummy 
thesis for nine years. Imagine listening to her for nine years about it?
(laughter)r
She should get some big problems and she’ll fi nish the darn thing. And then take on a job that’s 
a real problem for her, and do great with that until she takes on more responsibility, runs a uni-
versity and has a lot of problems. Then you’d be interesting to talk to. That’s the problem. You’re
resisting the very thing that gives life its whole excitement—problems—because they “shouldn’t
be.” So the way to transform that is to confront each of your problems and the whole distinction 
“problem” and put them in a box called “in life there are problems.” Okay. Any questions? Any 
“yeah but”s and “how about”s?
DONALD
So I take a problem, in my case, say, my weight. And in life there are problems. I’ve got a prob-
lem that I’m sixty pounds more than I want to be, or sixty pounds more than healthy.
As we have shown elsewhere, this is the clearing that Heidegger 
saw manifested in the thinking of the pre-Socratics, the site of the 
primal struggle by which they brought Being to stand, thereby
brought forth the world, and won the clearing for the emergence 
of truth. A human being is a clearing in the world for things to be
the things they are.
For both Heidegger and Erhard, this is a central point: gener-
ative thinking, thinking that wants to unconceal the truth of Being 
and thereby light beings, can do so only if there is first created a
clearing for the lighting: “Light can stream into the clearing,” says
Heidegger; but light itself never creates the clearing. “Rather, light 
presupposes it” (“EP&TT” in BW 442). According to the scholar 
W
William Lovitt, Heidegger has expressed a preference that the da 
in Da-sein, be translated as openness, rather than the traditional 
there (Intro to QCT, xxxv). A human being is fundamentally
T
Being-openness. 
 “The lumen naturale,” says Heidegger, “the light of reason,
throws light only on the open” (“EP&TT” in BW 443). But it is im-
W
portant to note that while Dasein is the clearing for the light, Dasein 
is the light, as well. In Being and Time, Heidegger pointed out that 
the figurative expression, lumen naturale, denotes the existen-
tial-ontological structure of Dasein itself. The light is a constituent 
of Dasein, and begins to shine when Dasein “is in such a way as to 
be its ‘there’” (BT 171). In becoming the opening of the clearing, we 
T
become simultaneously the light which illuminates the clearing. 
The dialogue of The Forum may be seen as a process for clear-
ing the opening that The Forum participants are, thereby enabling
them to know themselves as a “there” for the lighting of Being.
The first step in the process is the deconstruction of participants’ 
normative subjectivities, the primal struggle that responds to the
first question of The Forum: What is the Being of human beings? 
This clears the opening for the second question: What is the possi-
bility of Being for human beings? It is through this second question
that the clearing is lighted. ■
WES (continuing; laughter)


=== END OF PAGE 414 ===

=== PAGE 415 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
401
WES
But there’s no problem yet. See “I’m sixty pounds more that I want to be” is not a problem. 
That’s “sixty pounds more than I want to be.”
DONALD
That’s right. I spoke that. I languaged that. So if I wanted to weigh 235 pounds, and I weighed
235 pounds, I’d be happy, because that’s how much I wanted to weigh.
WES
No. I don’t know that you’d be happy.
DONALD
Because I said so.
WES
No. That’s just how much you would weigh.
DONALD
There wouldn’t be a problem there.
WES
Not yet. If you weighed what you weighed, there’s no problem.
DONALD
It’s a problem...
WES
If you weigh what you weigh and you shouldn’t weigh that, then there’s a problem. Or you’re
on a diet and it’s not working fast enough and that shouldn’t be. Or you try and it doesn’t work 
and it should have worked. 
DONALD
But if I wanted to weigh 235 pounds and I weigh 235 pounds...
WES
The fi rst step is to say to your problem called “your weight” that “in life there are problems,” not
“the problem about my weight shouldn’t be. I shouldn’t have a problem with my weight.”
DONALD
That’s what I’m saying: “I shouldn’t have a problem about my weight.” 


=== END OF PAGE 415 ===

=== PAGE 416 ===

402
SPEAKING BEING
WES
No it’s more like “I shouldn’t have the problem ‘weight.’”
DONALD
I shouldn’t have the problem “weight,” I should be more like Ron.
(indicating person sitting next to him who looks more fi t than Donald)
WES
No.
(laughter)r
That you have problems, is wrong. You’d be better off  without your problems, right Donald?
DONALD
Yeah. 
WES
That’s what we’re dealing with.
DONALD
Oh, I’ve got it.
WES
You wouldn’t be better off  without your problems, because if have life, you’ll have problems. 
DONALD
I got it.
WES
The whole group “problems” has opened up. We haven’t dealt with the specifi c problem called 
weight. 
DONALD
I got it.
WES
You can stand with your problems like “acceptance,” or even more than acceptance.
DONALD
Recognition.


=== END OF PAGE 416 ===

=== PAGE 417 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
403
WES
Recognition that that is part of the deal.
DONALD
Right and that’s part of the deal of being human, not part of my deal, not part of Ron’s deal. The
gorilla doesn’t have the problem “weight.” The gorilla is just the gorilla. Because we’re human 
and we show up in this culture of human, and we’ve got languaging then we’ve got a weight
problem.
WES
No, we’ve got problems that shouldn’t be problems.
DONALD
We’ve got problems that shouldn’t be problems. Yeah. To me, when you put up there that in
life there are problems, that seemed very fl ippant. Like “Huh, in life there are problems.” Like 
there’s no weight to them, there’s no...
WES
No, you should have the problems that you have. Sorry. The problems that you have are appro-
priate. And they are part of your being alive.
DONALD
Not just my being alive.
WES
Right, being alive. So there’s an appropriateness to problems. There’s not a “shouldn’t be” to
problems. It’s part of living.
DONALD
Oh, in life there are problems.
WES
Exactly. Yeah. So you have started to shift your relationship to problems.
DONALD
So it’s not a problem that I have a problem. It’s in life that I have a problem.
WES
Yeah. It’s not a problem that you have a problem.
DONALD
Right. Like everybody else doesn’t.


=== END OF PAGE 417 ===

=== PAGE 418 ===

404
SPEAKING BEING
WES
Like the people over there who’ve really got it made have less problems than you do.
DONALD
But... they do.
(laughter)r
WES
No, they don’t. I promise you they don’t. They have more problems than you.
DONALD
So it’s something like the relationship with the problems?
WES
Yeah. They are able to relate to problems as part of the game.
DONALD
Instead of that it shouldn’t be.
WES
Exactly.
DONALD
Oh, I got it. Earlier someone said that problems are a declaration. You said no. But they are a
declaration...
WES
We’re a little ahead of ourselves. “In life there are problems” is ultimately a declaration. And 
“In life, problems shouldn’t be” is ultimately a declaration.
DONALD
We just don’t know that.
WES
Right.
DONALD
So, would the declaration that problems show up in be a complaint declaration?
WES
Yeah.


=== END OF PAGE 418 ===

=== PAGE 419 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
405
DONALD (sitting)
Okay I’m done.
TIM
The diffi  culty I’m having is to get the baggage away from the problem I carry because of the cul-
ture and my own experiences, because when I hear the word “problem,” whether it “shouldn’t 
be” or “in life there are problems,” there are invitations to certain kinds of action around the
word problem, like “solve it,” or “do something about it.”
WES
Very good. Yeah.
TIM
Or “remedy.”
WES
Sure, we haven’t gotten there yet. “Shouldn’t be”: What is the response to something that
shouldn’t be?
TIM
You get rid of it...
WES
Get rid of it. Do something about it. Solve it. Fix it. Change it. Right?
TIM
Right. Find the solution.
WES
Find the solution. Solve it! See we never notice something. Let me tell you something about this
conversation. We’re doing diff erent dimensions. It isn’t like you have to get everything on the 
same dimension. But you have to get the dimensions to get the conversations. We did this on 
the fi rst day, right? In geometry we learned about three axes.
Wes drew a diagram on the board representing the x, y, and z axes.
WES (continuing)
You know you can’t collapse those. That’s the very nature of them, that they are distinct axes;
they etch out diff erent dimensions. What people try to do to fi gure things out—because fi guring 
out has to have things in a linear fashion—is they try to fi t everything on a single axis. What 
they don’t see is that there’s power in creating in a conversation a group of dimensions, which
when you get them all, you get the picture. You can’t put a sphere on one dimension, can you?


=== END OF PAGE 419 ===

=== PAGE 420 ===

406
SPEAKING BEING
You can’t even put a circle in one dimension. Before you can have a circle you have to create
the two dimensions. So we’re creating diff erent dimensions in this conversation. Okay, so we’ll 
jump dimensions somewhat.
TIM
So, your invitation to me is to look at the possibility that the word “problem” can exist in a dif-
ferent dimension than with “solution.”
WES
Yeah: a diff erent context in which you will not be immediately moved to solve it. 
TIM
Got it.
WES
Hold on a second. What you’re bringing up is great. This whole thing about problem/solution: 
Here’s one thing that people almost always never get. 
Wes walked over to a the chalkboard on stage right and erased “Right/wrong; dominate/avoid domi-
nation; justifi es itself/invalidates others.”
WES (continuing)
Take a look at any problem that you’ve had and look at what you’ve done with it. What you’ve done
with it is: solved it in some way. The way people solve problems is they do something about it, and 
if that didn’t work, they do something more, and if that didn’t work, they do something better, and
if that didn’t work, they do something diff erent. They are led to dealing with it, solving it.
(drawing a “P” on the board and then encircling it)
You’ve got a problem, and then you solve it. What happens with regard to the solution to the
problem? 
TIM
It becomes a truth, or something right, the right thing to do.
WES
Yes. But it’s worse than that. You have to actually look at a problem that you’ve had that you’ve solved
and then look at the solution to see what happened to it. Take a look at a problem that you had.
TIM
I’m thinking: Some solutions become problems.
WES
Yes, exactly! The solution becomes your next problem.
WES (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 420 ===

=== PAGE 421 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
407
TIM
Some.
WES
No, all of them! When they’re solutions. Take a look. It’s a very nasty trap. What’s a very big 
problem for somebody in high school? 
TIM
Zits.
(laughter)r
WES
Yeah but only because zits mean something: That’s the real problem. 
TIM
Yes.
WES
If all the models had zits, zits would be good. What does that mean?
TIM
Looking good.
WES
Getting a boyfriend, getting a girlfriend, and getting laid. Have you forgotten?
(laughter)r
Grades too, but we’ll talk about getting laid because it’s more fun.
(laughter)r
So that’s the big problem. Look back at your life and look at teenagers and see what it’s all
about. It was about getting a girlfriend, getting a boyfriend, and getting laid, and also getting
laid with the right one. So, many people immediately solved that problem right out of high
school. What did they do?
TIM
They get married. And then they’ve got a new problem.
WES
That becomes the next problem. Aren’t marriages that solve problems the next problem? I didn’t 
say marriages are a problem. Listen carefully. Marriage is not a problem. Marriage is marriage.


=== END OF PAGE 421 ===

=== PAGE 422 ===

408
SPEAKING BEING
But when marriage is a solution to a problem, it becomes the next problem. This is the way it is 
for most people: For most people a relationship is a solution to a problem. What do you think
that does to the relationship? It turns it into a thing, with a group of expectations. It becomes
part of your racket. That’s not relating. You turn someone else into a solution to your problem.
That’s what you’re relating with and that’s not relating. That’s making it a problem. How many 
people found it diffi  cult at some point in The Forum, for them?
(a large number of people raising their hands)
You know how some people solved that problem? There are people for whom that’s a real prob-
lem. When they experience something, that’s a real problem; they don’t like something, it’s a real 
problem. You know how they solve that? Some people? They leave. That’s their solution to the
problem. Not a lot of people; a couple people. You think that ends up as a problem for them? What 
about the relationships that you’ve left? Look at a relationship. And it was a problem and the way 
you dealt with it is you left it. You will drag that crummy relationship around with you forever. 
That’s this whole thing about being incomplete with your parents: That’s at the source of it. 
TIM
Okay I understand it in the examples you used and it makes real sense that solutions become
problems.
WES
Well, it’s part of the quote that Kipp butchered. Where is Kipp? I’ll read it to you exactly: “The
world that we have made as a result of the level of thinking we have done thus far creates prob-
lems that we cannot solve at the same level we created them at.” Because if we solve them at the 
same level we created them at, we are in worse shape.
TIM
Well that still doesn’t address the issue though of needing to be solved.
WES
No, no, no, no, you’re trying to go too fast. You’re trying to solve the problem called “solving 
doesn’t work.”
TIM
Yeah, that you solve it at a diff erent level. That’s the invitation of Einstein anyway: to solve it at 
a diff erent level.
WES
We’re going to give you a diff erent level. And it won’t be the level... the level that you deal with 
problems, what you call solutions...
TIM
The “shouldn’t be...”
WES (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 422 ===

=== PAGE 423 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
409
WES (drawing larger circles around the fi rst circle around the “P”)”
...becomes the next problem, which you then solve, which becomes the next problem. So you’ve 
got to solve that one, which becomes the next problem. On and on and on: which is all racket,
by the way, and leaves you looking like this.
(hunching over)r
TIM
It seems that there are problems.
WES
It says up here “In life there are problems” that occur in languaging.
TIM
There are problems with solutions that don’t become problems.
WES
Really? Give me one.
TIM
I left my wallet where I bought a gift. And I came and sat down and realized I left my wallet.
I sat there and thought, “Gee, I don’t remember putting my wallet away.” I got up and went to 
check my coat and my wallet wasn’t there. So I left and went to the store...
WES
But this is a story. I don’t hear any problem in this. 
TIM
So you’re defi ning that losing a wallet is not a problem.
WES
No, not necessarily a problem.
TIM
Unless you say “it shouldn’t be.”
WES
Exactly. Losing a wallet is losing a wallet. Having cancer is having cancer. People are going to 
die. “Those people with cancer are going to die!” You are going to die.
TIM
What are the problems that are in life? Give me a problem in life?
The Drift 
The work of both Erhard and Heidegger is the generation and 
development (the teasing out) of primordial metaphors, which
may be held, for the purpose of this discussion, as what Erhard has
called distinctions (and more recently, “linguistic abstractions”),
the distinguishing of which unconceals new possibilities for Being-
in-the-world.


=== END OF PAGE 423 ===

=== PAGE 424 ===

410
SPEAKING BEING
WES
Any one you got, they belong here, because they belong in life.
TIM
Not because they shouldn’t be but because they are there. So saying “shouldn’t be” doesn’t make 
them a problem.
WES
No: “Shouldn’t be” is the source of your problems and the solutions to your problems that are at-
tached to your rackets. Now we’re going to look at problems outside your racket to see what you can 
do with them. What would you have to give up to have the problems that you have—not changing 
them—but to have the problems that you have and just have them? You’d have to give up a lot.
(indicating Nicole, and her unfi nished thesis)
She’d have to give up a lot with the thesis: a lot of story, and “something’s wrong,” “something’s 
wrong with me,” or “something’s wrong with it,” or “my mother...” She’d have to give that all up. 
Then she’d have a problem. “I need to get my thesis done and I’m not getting it done.” That’s the
name of that tune. If she would be with it like that she’d have to give up all the “shouldn’t be”s 
around that, right?
TIM
Yes.
WES
She’s solved that problem about the thesis a lot. She gave some explanations about it as a way to 
solve it. She lied about it as a way to solve it. See how those solutions are building the problem?
TIM
I think I’m getting it. So a problem can exist out of the context of “shouldn’t be...”
WES
But not out of the context of languaging. 
TIM
In life... They are there... Period.
WES
Yeah. Problems will occur in languaging one way or the other, because that’s all there is for
human beings.
TIM
They are a rainstorm.
The development of a distinction begins with positing what at 
first appears to be a definition or premise—a “hint”—that participants 
then “try on,” and from which they are to “stand” and then “look out” 
at their everyday lives, and fill in for themselves what is hinted at in 
the hint. In dialogue with Erhard and the other course leaders—in 
combination with witnessing such dialogues—participants share 
what they see, and in the authentic space of this sharing, the distinc-
tion continues to emerge in the background, in what is unsaid in the
conversation that directs our attention to a way of seeing and Being-
in-the-world—a world that is itself being called out into unconceal-
ment by the series of hints. The very act of undergoing a dialogue in 
which a distinction is distinguished gives Being-in-the-world.
Calling a distinction by a descriptive title, then, such as “sto-
ry,” or “what happened,” or “concern,” or “distinction,” or “racket,” 
or “empty and meaningless” can only ever be a hint, a piece of 
a whole that cannot ever be fully represented adequately as a
descriptive statement. Thus, these “hints” function rhetorically as
metaphors, language that on the surface is familiar, but once we 
take up the language and follow its movement, it “turns” us away
toward something utterly diff erent from itself. What makes these 
metaphors “primordial” is that speaking them, and following 
them, brings forth Being-in-the-world from nothing. What makes
the work of Erhard so distinctive is precisely this approach.
Through his encounter with Heidegger’s thinking, Erhard has 
said, new specifications for the communication of his work became 
available—ways to say things more pointedly, increasing the work’s 
value to participants (Erhard, interview with the authors). The funda-
mental dynamic of Erhard’s work—its all-encompassing generative 
distinction—has remained consistent since its inception as the est
Training, and throughout its iteration as The Forum. At the same time, 
new languagings have been added to its vocabulary, creating other 
paths into the generative distinction. But just as Heidegger’s language 
evolved significantly over the course of his career, Erhard has consis-
tently experimented with other new primordial metaphors.
Experimentation is essential if such a methodology of language 
is to retain its generative power. An ontological distinction is com-
municated in the unspoken background as concepts are generated 


=== END OF PAGE 424 ===

=== PAGE 425 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
411
WES
No, there is languaging.
TIM
Languaging creates the rainstorm.
WES
Languaging creates everything.
TIM
Yeah. Including problems.
WES
Including problems. And you are given an already way of relating to problems. We’re giving you 
a new way to relate to problems: to let them be.
TIM
Okay.
WES
For the moment. In order to deal with something powerfully, you have to be able to let it be.
I can change the fl oor if I could let it be. If I’m arguing about the fl oor all day I’ll never get 
around to changing it. From complaining about the fl oor all day I’ll never get to deal with it.
TIM
Thank you.
WES
We’ve got “problems are in languaging,” and we’ve got a way where we can let them be. It’s
okay to have a problem. They occur in languaging. We want to look at a specifi c problem to 
see what access we have to the problem when we let it be. Now I’m going to share my one real 
problem—the problem of all The Forum leaders who live in California. My problem is “I want 
to go to the beach but I don’t have time. I’m always in The Forum.” Whatever your problem is, it
fi ts in that form. Something... but something.
On the chalkboard Wes wrote “I want to go to the beach but I don’t have time” on the chalkboard.
(continuing)
You need to take one of your problems and put it in that form. Get the confl icting things.
The way you get something stuck is you get one force opposed by an equal and opposite 
force. They have to be equal and opposite or you won’t get stuck. If one force is bigger than the 
other, there will be movement. Anybody who can’t see that? That’s the nature of a problem.
in the foreground of a conversation; but the distinction maintains its 
force only while those concepts are being generated. In this relevant
passage, Heidegger distinguishes two ways in which beings (includ-
ing ideas and concepts) can be brought to appear in the world:
Considered in terms of the essence of space, 
the diff erence between the two types of 
appearing is this: appearing in the first and 
authentic sense, as the gathered bringing-it-
self-to-stand, takes space in; it first conquers 
space; as standing-there, it creates space for 
itself; it brings about everything that belongs
to it, while it itself is not imitated. 
“
Appearing in the second sense merely steps
forth from an already prepared space, and it is 
viewed by a looking-at within the already fixed
dimensions of this space. The aspect off ered by
the thing, and no longer the thing itself, now
becomes what is decisive. Appearing in the first
sense rips space open. Appearing in the second 
sense simply gives space an outline and measures
the space that has been opened up. (IM 203–204,
emphasis and paragraphing added)
“
In the initial saying of a primordial metaphor, then, the space of a 
distinction is ripped open. Subsequently, with each new and onto-
logically consonant languaging of that distinction—or with each re 
iteration of the dialogic unfolding of the series of hints—the space
that has been created expands. 
But this demands that the space be opened newly in each occur-
y
rence. Erhard is emphatic on this point: “I never repeat material,” he
told an audience in 1989, “and I mean that quite literally. Every time
I deal with something, I deal with it anew, like something to make 
present between you and me” (“Beyond the Winning Formula”). 
Two categories of distinctions are suggested by the two guid-
ing questions of The Forum. The first category includes our current 
but concealed ways of being human—our “blind spots.” These are


=== END OF PAGE 425 ===

=== PAGE 426 ===

412
SPEAKING BEING
Problems in life are presented as two equal but opposite forces in which you get stuck. Get a 
problem up for yourself and see that they are constructed by equal but opposite forces. The 
only problem with this is that there are some lies up here. What’s a lie up here?
GRACE
It’s the word “but” and it implies that there is no solution or no way out, or that you’re stuck.
WES
Okay. Here is what “but” means, and why it’s a problem: Problems are created by buts...
(laughter)r
Welcome to the fourth day of The Forum. Problems are created by buts, because “but” means
what follows it—this is the logic of linguistics here, okay—what follows “but” negates what pre-
cedes it, like an equal and opposite force to it. “I want to go to the beach” is stopped by the equal
and opposite force “I don’t have enough time,” because of “but.” You see that?
GRACE
Say “and”?
WES
Why would we want to say “and”?
GRACE
If you say “and” you have two things to look at and you can do something if you want to.
WES
That’s close. Here’s the question. “But” says this is an equal and opposite force to that. Is it really?
GRACE
No. They are two separate issues!
WES
What’s the equal and opposite force to “I don’t have time”?
GRACE
“I have time.”
WES
“I do have time,” right? “I do have time” is the equal and opposite force to “I don’t have time,”
so that’s what’s really equal and opposite. And “I don’t want to go to the beach” is the equal and 
opposite force to “I want to go to the beach.” 
the things about ourselves and our behavior that “we don’t know 
that we don’t know,” which emerge within the question: “What is
the Being of human beings?” In the second category are the new 
possibilities of Being, which can be distinguished only when the
blind spots have been discovered and chosen, and the background 
of meaninglessness revealed as it is within the question: “What is
the possibility of Being for human beings?”
 This categorization is certainly valid at the levels of aff ect and 
value—the “bad” behaviors we want to change versus the im-
proved versions we want to create—but considered ontologically, 
the diff erence is only apparent. The distinctions in both categories
assign meaning to the meaningless. But, it may be argued, were
not the behaviors being distinguished in the first category—such 
as my racket—already there, albeit unrecognized?
Heidegger responds that they have always been available as
possibilities. “What is spoken out is already necessarily within phy-
sis (Being), otherwise it could not be spoken from out of it” (FCM
26). This is why its emergence into the world clicks for us even as 
it blows us away, occurring as something that at some level we 
already knew; and thus its showing up is accompanied by “the ring 
of truth,” as shown in this brilliant passage from Being and Time:
Before Newton’s laws were discovered, they 
were not ‘true’; it does not follow that they 
were false, or even that they would
become false if ontically no discoveredness
were any longer possible. [. . .] To say that 
before Newton his laws were neither true nor 
false, cannot signify that before him there 
were no such entities as have been uncov-
ered and pointed out by those laws. Through 
Newton the laws became true and with them,
entities became accessible in themselves to
Dasein. Once entities have been uncovered, 
they show themselves precisely as entities 
which beforehand already were. Such uncover-
ing is the kind of Being which belongs to ‘truth.’ 
(BT 269, emphasis added)
“
WES (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 426 ===

=== PAGE 427 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
413
WES (indicating both independent clauses of the sentence on the board)
These two are not equal and opposite forces: That’s the lie. It’s possible to have both of those and
no confl ict. They are not inherently confl icting. The “but” makes them confl icting. So, we change
“but” to “and.” If we say, “I want to go to the beach and I don’t have time,” we’d be telling the 
truth about the two forces operating on us. “I want to go to the beach,” and “I don’t have time.” 
But is there a problem? Does “I want to go to the beach and I don’t have time” occur as a problem? 
GRACE
Yes, it occurs as a problem because you’re dealing with two opposing forces.
WES
No, they are not opposing.
GRACE
They’re separate and distinct.
WES
You’re the one who said so a moment ago.
GRACE
Right. What next?
WES
So: “I am here in The Forum and I want to eat.” Is that a problem?
GRACE
Not unless there’s a “but” in there.
WES
Do you hear a problem there?
GRACE
No.
WES
But: “I’m here in The Forum, but I’m starving to death.” Do you hear a problem?
GRACE
Yes.
WES
Taking the same forces and I’ve presented them to create a confl ict, at which I am at the eff ect 
and stuck with. And it comes from, not from life, because in reality there are no problems, it
The ring of truth signals not only “Of course! That’s true!” but also,
embedded in its reverberations, “It’s been true all along.”
¥
In the early- to mid-1980s, during the period when the est Train-
t
ing was being retired and The Forum was being generated, Erhard’s
organization produced a series of audiotapes. In them, we hear Erhard
developing distinctions, oft en in dialogic sessions with seminar 
participants. In some, the influence of Heidegger’s vocabulary may be 
heard. In others, we observe Erhard exploring other articulations. As 
with Heidegger, Erhard’s work is generated from a central distinction,
which may be approached from an abundance of starting points.
One such starting point is the drift , a distinction developed 
on the 1985 audiotape, “Eff ective Action and Accomplishment.” 
This distinction opens a way to Erhard’s central transformational
distinction; we suggest that the dynamic of this distinction may be 
analogized to several that Heidegger hints at throughout his work,
with rubrics such as thrownness, the “they,” and the play of Being. 
To use a Heideggerian term, the two men are saying the Same (see 
the sidebar entitled “The Same” in Session Three of Day Three).
In this 1985 seminar, the distinction is teased out collabora-
tively in the interactions between Erhard and the seminar partici-
pants, all of whom have had previous experience of The Forum and
are familiar with Erhard’s basic vocabulary of distinctions and the 
rhetorical dialogue in which they get distinguished. In what follows 
here, we provide brief excerpts (elisions are not shown).
Erhard opens the seminar with the image of a “boat in the
water with no rudder and no sails”:
Now when you put a boat in the water it
doesn’t stay still. It moves. And some ninny on 
the shore might say, “Boy, there’s a lot of in-
tention in that boat.” But really what there is
in the boat is drift . So I want to invent this dis-
tinction for ourselves called the drift . You and
I are drift ing. Life is drift ing. The world is drift -
ing. Humanity is drift ing. The United States is
drift ing. . . . There’s a certain drift . And there’s 
no distinction called the drift .
“


=== END OF PAGE 427 ===

=== PAGE 428 ===

414
SPEAKING BEING
comes from me and my speaking. So here’s what there is to get: all your problems as stucknesses 
are lies. All your problems as stucknesses are lies. All the presentation of the stuff  there, that’s 
not a lie. “I want to go to the beach and I don’t have time”: That’s not a lie and it’s not a problem. 
GRACE
Right.
WES
Any time you fi nd yourself stuck. Not moving. That’s bullshit. You’ve lied. Wake up! The stuck is the
lie. It comes from the—not the use of the word “but”—this is not about take every “but” out of your
language—this is about: Appreciate what you’re presenting in the problem, with “but,” or whatever
you use. Whenever you try to make things opposing and put yourself at the eff ect of them, there’s a lie 
there and you’re doing it, and the lie is that you’re not doing it. The lie is: You’re not doing it when you 
really are. That’s the lie. Nothing is inherently stuck in life. Life’s moving along fi ne. You see that?
GRACE
Yes.
As Grace sat Donald raised his hand and stood up again. 
DONALD
So if I say “I want to lose weight, but I hate dieting,” there’s a lie there. It’s like saying “I want to 
lose weight and you’re wearing a black vest.” Or “I want to lose weight and Vaclav Havel is the 
president of Yugoslavia.”
WES
Yeah, it’s that crazy, really. Why would anybody be so crazy as to do that?
DONALD
To be a victim.
WES
Not just victim, but to be a racketeer.
DONALD
So if I say “I’m overweight because my mother used to make fritters,” that’s the same lie.
WES
Yeah.
DONALD
Like “I’m overweight because you’re wearing a black sweater.” But the reason I blame my mother, 
say, when I don’t like dieting, is because I’ve...
So there’s this enormous body of superstition
about accomplishment and failure which has 
nothing whatsoever to do with accomplish-
ment or failure. It’s merely the drift . . . . I want
you to see that in many ways you are a drift  
for yourself. You have a certain drift . The tide
comes in, you go this way; the tide goes out,
you go that way. So in many ways, you your-
self are a part of the drift  for you yourself. 
“
Now if this one drift s into the other one, they
impact each other. But that’s all part of the
drift , yes? Your relationships drift . They’ve got
a life of their own. Projects drift , they’ve got 
a life of their own. When I’m considering the
distinction “accomplishment,” my question is,
what impacts the drift ?
“
The distinction is teased out in the subsequent dialogue between
Erhard and the seminar participants. Some of what appears here 
in embryonic form would later be developed in the Being a Leader 
Course (http://beingaleader.net) Erhard has developed together 
with Michael Jensen (Professor Emeritus of Economics at the 
Harvard Business School), Steve Zaff ron (CEO of the Vanto Group),
Kari Granger (Fellow, Center For Character and Leadership Devel-
opment, United States Air Force Academy), and Jeri Echeverria 
(Professor and Provost Emerita for the California State University,
Fresno). The next sidebar presents an excerpt from the pre-course
readings for the Being a Leader Course (from 2015). ■
WES (continuing)


=== END OF PAGE 428 ===

=== PAGE 429 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
415
WES
You’ve gotta have something be wrong.
DONALD
It’s fun to be stuck in “I’m fat and my mother...” There’s more juice in the being stuck than in
just going ahead and losing weight. What’s that about?
WES
It’s called “racket.” That’s what it’s about.
DONALD
Okay, so I’ve got a racket.
WES
You are a racket. And your whole “fat” story is part of your racket. All your problems about
“fat” are part of your racket, and all your solutions to those problems are part of the racket. And 
all your not-solutions to those problems are part of the racket...
DONALD
If it’s a racket then there’s some payoff  holding it in place.
WES
Absolutely.
DONALD
I thought it happened the other way around. The costs... I got the costs... There’s some payoff  in
holding onto my little problem here. So I’ve got some payoff ...
WES
You want to be looking at what Donald is looking at: your problems and their relationships to
your racket, and your payoff s and your costs. That’s what the conversation—that’s what makes 
the diff erence in the conversation; that’s what you want to be looking at. There should be an
opening into the problems that compose your life. Now—”That harmonizes with the rest of The
Forum?”—that’s what you want to be looking at.
DONALD
So I’ve got a racket called—I have, I’ve manufactured, I’ve created a racket called “I’m fat and
I want to lose weight,” right? This is a racket. I can see the costs. The costs are real clear: it’s 
health, it’s aliveness, vitality.
WES
No your racket is, “I want to lose weight but I can’t.” 


=== END OF PAGE 429 ===

=== PAGE 430 ===

416
SPEAKING BEING
DONALD
Right, okay. That’s it.
WES
“And my mother’s the one who did it to me.” Was it your mother?
DONALD
Yeah. As a matter of fact.
(laughter)r
WES
You love to make your mother wrong! You really do. He can do it on a daily basis. He can live
now... Here’s how he solved the problem of how to make his mother wrong on a continual basis.
He has a problem with his weight. So every time he looks in the mirror his mother’s wrong.
Think about how accessible that is to him now. He doesn’t even need to call her up on the 
phone. It’s just: Look in the mirror. That’s the payoff . Making her wrong is the payoff . You love
it. People love to make people wrong. There’s nothing like it: It’s the spice of life. 
DONALD
Wes, I saw some people in New York a couple of weeks ago and they said, “Donald, you’ve
gained a lot of weight since moving to California.” I said “well, the relationship I moved out 
here for didn’t work out.”
WES
Oh, so you made that relationship wrong.
DONALD
Got it.
WES (to the group)
Donald is learning something. His mother was the teacher—no, his need to make his mother
wrong is the teacher. He can make people wrong by gaining weight. It works every time. And 
they did it to him. And they’re creeps, just like his mother, the original weight giver.
(laughter)r
By the way, your problems are like that. They repeat themselves. They’re repetitive in nature. So
that’s an insight.
DONALD
My mother...


=== END OF PAGE 430 ===

=== PAGE 431 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
417
WES
And your solutions to problems, as rackets, are repetitive.
DONALD
I got another repetition. My mother never graduated from high school. She went to work 
instead. She wanted us to go to university. It was a big thing in our family to go to university. 
My mother really wanted all eleven of us to go to university, and I made my mother wrong by 
dropping out. And so I get to be uneducated, to continue to make my mother wrong, and Dad
in there too. And so when she writes me letters... and tells me about my sister’s grades—like I 
don’t give a shit about my sister—I wish she’d stop reminding me of her being about education,
because really she’s wrong. I really didn’t need to do that... So does that mean that in every prob-
lem that I have, I can see where I’m making someone wrong?
WES
Yeah. 
DONALD
And if something happens, like if I lose my wallet, that’s not a problem and there’s no charge on
it, I could just go back to the store where I lost my wallet and get it back. So when something’s
there, there always has to be a lie for there to be stuckness...
WES
And whenever you lie, you lie for a purpose, to make someone or something wrong, to avoid the
domination of, to win, or to justify something: That’s why you lie. You lie to avoid the domina-
tion of something, someone, make someone wrong or make yourself right, win, avoid losing 
and justify yourself and invalidating others. That’s why people lie. That’s the whole point of it.
DONALD
I caught myself lying on Wednesday, on Day One of this Forum, and I forget what process we 
were sharing about, but I was saying that the airlines had messed up my fl ight, but what hap-
pened was more like a dance with the changing schedules.
WES
You were more committed to moving through the stops than you were to making something
wrong. If you were more committed to making something wrong, then that is what you would
have been engaged in, and you would have ended up with the problems that most people have. 
DONALD
I was so committed to having it work that I called the offi  ce here in San Francisco to get the 
address to send my bags here in case the fl ight got canceled again. I was committed to just have 
it work. But then at the same time, I lied about it on the phone, complaining to someone that I
was stuck in Denver for three hours.


=== END OF PAGE 431 ===

=== PAGE 432 ===

418
SPEAKING BEING
WES
Yeah, there’s nothing like a little sympathy along the way.
DONALD
You know the thing that I didn’t want to stand up and talk about was my weight because I 
didn’t want to have eight hundred people come up and give me suggestions now.
(laughter)r
I think there’s like a stuckness that that creates.
WES (to the group)
Don’t give Donald suggestions.
DONALD
Okay, thanks, Wes. That’s it.
WES
Very good. Thank you. 
(Donald sits to applause as Illiana stands)
What you want to be doing is looking at your problems and the payoff s to them. 
ILLIANA
I’m trying to fi gure it out.
WES
Bad deal. Wrong deal.
ILLIANA
Okay. Just a second. My racket is that I want attention.
WES
What problem allows you to run the racket?
ILLIANA
Asking for attention.
WES
Is that the problem? Asking for attention?
ILLIANA
I have many diff erent problems on that basis.
“Way of Being” and the “Nature of Being for 
Human Beings”
The following is an excerpt from the Pre-Course Reading Assign-
ment #5 from the Being a Leader Course (http://beingaleader.net) 
as of fall 2015. In the manner in which this pedagogical document
opens up a way to distinguish the diff erence between “way of 
being” for human beings, and the “fundamental and essential
nature of Being for human beings,” the authors find a further 
development of Erhard’s work in The Forum (circa 1989) that both 
continues to resonate with Heidegger’s thinking while experiment-
ing with new languagings of primordial metaphors.
What is Meant by “Way of Being”
In speaking about another person’s way of being you or I might 
say, “She’s in a good mood,” or “That made him sad,” or “She’s
always cheerful,” or “He is an extrovert.”  We also sometimes simi-
larly think about our own way of being.
Our way of being is some combination of our mental state, 
emotional state, bodily state, and our thoughts and thought pro-
cesses, and memories.  Or saying the same thing in more experi-
ential terms, our way of being is some combination of our attitude
or state of mind, and our feelings or emotions, plus our body
sensations, and our thoughts and memories.  For short, our way of 
being is what is going on with us internally in a given moment or in
y
a given situation.
Note that the temporality of our way of being is what is going
on with us in a given moment or in
t
a given situation.  Even if a
certain way of being could be said to be our general or characteris-
tic way of being, none of us is always only the way we generally or 
characteristically are.
Once you have checked out in your own experience what we 
have said so far about way of being (and you should certainly do
that), what we have said becomes pretty obvious.  But, there are 
two facts about our way of being that are at first perhaps not so 
obvious:


=== END OF PAGE 432 ===

=== PAGE 433 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
419
WES
Right: With this person and with that person...
ILLAINA
Yes.
WES
“I want attention from him but he’s not giving me any attention,” and so you develop a whole 
story about what kind of person he is, and she’s had this problem before with other people, and 
none of it should be, it’s all wrong and she’s less-than, and you’re into this whole crummy story 
and somebody’s wrong. And somebody’s right. Of course she’s right and something else is wrong.
ILLIANA
From that I developed asking attention in diff erent ways.
WES
Right: as a solution. But they never really work, do they?
ILLIANA
No. Until today. I don’t get what I want.
WES
Yeah.
ILLIANA
Now, you said to bring up the problem, okay? The problem that I came up with was... I’m deal-
ing now in my life with a... working with a new company, trying to do something that I don’t
believe I can do. And what I really want is their attention, to know that I can do it. 
WES
Yeah, and that’ll make everything lousy, with no satisfaction. She’s doing it to get attention, not to
produce results. There will be no accomplishment, and she’ll never get enough attention, so she’ll
be driven, and it’s a racket. And she’ll also conclude about it that it shouldn’t be. The whole situation
“shouldn’t be,” and you shouldn’t be this way. However it turns out, “it shouldn’t be.” And you’ll have
a problem again, and that shouldn’t be. And so now you can stand in empty and meaningless and see
the absurdity of that. The absurdity of the problem called “needing attention.” You want attention?
ILLIANA
Yeah.
WES
Great. Take what you get and call that “attention.” That would be a possibility, right? From 
empty and meaningless?
Fact One
Our actions from moment to moment are generally consistent with
t
our way of being in those moments.  This is true for any way of be-
ing, such as annoyed, or sad, or loving, and the like.  For example,
when we are being angry we are also likely to find ourselves acting
angrily, and when we are being confident we are likely to be acting 
confidently.  It is clear that when we are being angry, or confident, 
or annoyed, or sad or loving, our actions are likely to be consistent
with that way of being.
  Note that we have said that our actions are virtually always 
consistent with our 
t
way of being (what is going on with us inter-
nally).  And that is all that can be verified in our experience (in our 
consciousness).  We can have theories about some additional con-
nection or relation between our way of being and our actions, but
there is no proof (evidence) of any further connection or relation
between our way of being and our way of acting other than that
they are consistent with each other. 
t
However, we must note that most people go through life and 
act in life as though what is going on with them internally (some 
combination of their mental state, emotional state, bodily state,
and their thoughts and memories) causes their actions.  But there 
is no scientific evidence for believing in such a causal connection. 
All we can say about the relationship between our way of being 
and acting is that they are mutually arising or co-arising.  In fact,
during the course we will present neuroscience research (Clancey 
1993; Libet 1999; Hawkins 2004; Soon 2008; Haggard 2009; Kandel
2009; Bode 2011; Wolpert 2011; Zimmer 2013 and Buckner 2013) 
that is contrary to the belief that what is going on with you inter-
nally causes your actions.  For now, the following quotes from
neuroscientist Sam Harris (2012) summarize in everyday lan-
guage the research about the connection between what is going
on with you internally (in this case, your decision or intention) and
y
your action:


=== END OF PAGE 433 ===

=== PAGE 434 ===

420
SPEAKING BEING
ILLIANA
You mean, whatever comes?
WES
Yeah. Take what you get and call that “attention.” Someone looks over at me, “great. That’s 
attention.” And then get along with my work. Not like “They didn’t look long enough. That 
must mean I’m not okay.” Swirling around in your racket. Who cares if you didn’t get attention?
Produce some results. And then you’ll die.
(laughter)r
ILLIANA
I want to ask a question. I would like to fi t my racket with what you are saying.
WES
Where is the “unfi t”?
(after Illiana asks Wes to read the board once more)
“I want to go the beach, but I don’t have any time.” That’s a problem.
ILLIANA
So that’s the “but”: “I want to get attention, but I don’t want to ask for it.”
WES
Great. That’s a problem, right?
ILLIANA
Right. 
WES
Let’s shift it: It’s a lie. It’s a racket.
ILLAINA
Okay.
WES
Tell the truth about it. “I want to get attention and I’m afraid to ask for it.” 
ILLIANA (smiling)
And I’m afraid to ask for it. So the “but” is creating the problem.
Some moments before you are aware of what 
you will do next—a time in which you subjec-
tively appear to have complete freedom to
behave however you please—your brain has
already determined what you will do.  You
then become conscious of this “decision” and
believe that you are in the process of making
it. (9)  
 The intention to do one thing and not another 
does not originate in consciousness—rather, it
appears in consciousness. . . . (8)
“
Fact Two
And, perhaps even less obvious is that both our way of being and 
our actions (arising together consistent with each other) is correlat-
ed with—is naturally, necessarily, closely connected with; or more
d
poetically, in-a-dance-with—the way in which what we are dealing
with occurs or shows up for us.  In short, our way of being and act-
ing is a natural correlate of (in-a-dance-with) the way what we are
dealing with occurs for us.  For example, if the way a situation we 
are dealing with occurs or shows up for us as threatening, our way 
of being and acting is likely to be a natural correlate of (in-a-dance-
with) the situation occurring or showing up for us as threatening. 
On the other hand, if the way a situation we are dealing with occurs
or shows up for us as an opportunity to excel, our way of being and 
acting is likely to be correlated with the situation
d
occurring for us
as an opportunity to excel.  
In summary, our actions are merely consistent with our 
t
way of 
being—that is, our actions are likely consistent with some combi-
nation of our mental state, emotional state, bodily state, and our 
thoughts and memories; but our actions are not caused by these
d
aspects of what is going on with us internally.


=== END OF PAGE 434 ===

=== PAGE 435 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
421
WES
You see that?
ILLIANA (nodding and smiling)
Yes.
WES
Yeah. This is a woman who just got the lie in her life. Why you’re driven to the “but” is your 
racket. You’ll fi nd yourself taking things and putting “but” between them. Opposing them from 
your racket. You’ll have to train yourself in telling the truth.
ILLIANA
The “but” makes it fi ghting. “And” is making peace. 
WES
Yes! Very good!
ILLIANA
Thank you.
(applause)
Paul stood up again, the participant who can speak several languages and who struggled to get the
distinction “being inauthentic” during Session Two of Day One.
PAUL
I see something now about having my foot nailed to the floor. When you were going around
there: I saw myself one day going around in my living room in a circle, and it just cracked
me up that I did that. What’s come out of it, I sat there wanting to go into real estate, and
wanting to have a career in real estate, but I don’t know if I should because I... “I’m not re-
ally good at this, I don’t understand it. I really should go to school. But school takes a lot of 
money and I don’t have a lot of money and I hate my job. And I hate my job because I can’t 
make a lot of money.” It just kept going and going and going. What’s funny is that it led to 
me coming here, because I got that everything, this all is going to collapse and I’ll be dead.
If I don’t do something about it, or do something, it’ll be the end of me. Not only that, I can
see how I’ve done this with other things I love in my life, like music, that I’ve completely 
talked myself right out of it. It’s something I wanted to do but I started too late. I’m not
a great technician and I don’t have all these things. And I eventually lost sight of the fact 
that I just like making music. Instead of just being in that making music I’ve gotten tangled
up in all the little piddly details and it became a racket after a while. And it kept me from
dealing with the fact that I have to practice if I want to make it, and I didn’t want to. Now it
is so easy to see it. Now I’d like to get home and play.
You can confirm facts 1 and 2 for yourself by checking them
out in your own experience.  Regarding fact 1:  Is your way of being
at this moment—that is, some combination of your attitude, and
your feelings, plus your body sensations, and your thoughts and
memories regarding what you are dealing with—consistent with
t
your way of acting in this moment?  Or more pointedly, is your way 
of being and way of acting consistent with each other, virtually 
arising as one thing?
And then, fact 2:  Is your way of being and acting (arising as
though one thing) correlated with (closely connected with) the
way what you are dealing with occurs or shows up for you?  And, 
has that been essentially true in situations you have dealt with in
the past?  (For those of you who are tempted to do so, don’t stop 
at understanding the text of what we said; rather, take the time to
actually check it out in your own as-lived experience.)
d
In summary:  Our way of being and acting is correlated with
d
(naturally, necessarily, closely connected with; in-a-dance-with) 
the way in which what we are dealing with occurs for us.
During the course everything in this section will be gone over 
and made clear for you so that you can confirm its validity in your 
own lived experience.  In addition, the critical importance for being
a leader and the eff ective exercise of leadership of what has been
covered in this section will be dealt with in depth during the in-
class sessions of the course.
A Fact about the Way in which what we are
Dealing With Occurs for us
When we go through life such that who we are is whatever we are 
referring to when we say “I” or “me” (which is the way we usually 
do go through life), there is a background for the way in which life,
d
living, and self occur for us.  That is, when who we are for ourselves
r
is what we are referring to when we say “I” or “me,” this back-
ground (or we could say “environment”) for the way in which life,


=== END OF PAGE 435 ===

=== PAGE 436 ===

422
SPEAKING BEING
WES
Right. It opens up participation. Your problems are stops to participation. 
PAUL
It’s not this big tragedy anymore, like “I’ve got to commit myself to this!” Just do it.
WES
Great. Thanks.
DOREL
I’ve been sitting here thinking about my problems, and there’s a lot of them.
KIPP
All the problems you have in your languaging. 
DOREL
In my languaging.
KIPP
You see the diff erence between those? There are no problems in your life, are there?
DOREL
I think I see what you’re saying, it’s just that I created...
KIPP
Be careful about this creation business. They live in the conversation you are. There are no 
problems out there. Your dog never has any problems. And when you say you have a lot of 
problems in your life, you’re saying there’s this “life” someplace that contains these problems; 
the problems are in your conversations. Languaging.
DOREL
One of the things I got was that I get easily upset and angry.
KIPP
You’re kidding. How did you get in here? He gets easily upset? Angry?
(laughter)r
DOREL
I think a big source of that is I want to make others wrong. 
living, and self occur for us,
r
colors and shapes that occurring.  We
term this background or environment for the way life, living, and
self occur:  “mood.”  The occurring is in the foreground and the
d
mood is in the
d
background coloring and shaping the
d
occurring in 
the foreground.  During the in-class sessions of the course we will 
clarify and fully deal with what is introduced in this paragraph.  At
this point, the only thing there is to get about what is said in this
paragraph is that there is this something called “mood,” and mood
is distinct from and diff erent than what is meant by “clearing,” a
term you will encounter in the next section. 
The “Fundamental and Essential Nature and 
Function of Being for Human Beings” in Contrast 
to One’s “Way of Being”
There is a difference between the fundamental and essential
nature of “being” for human beings, and any person’s individual 
moment-to-moment particular “way of being.” 
t
We are sometimes aware of our particular moment-to-mo-
ment way of being, but we human beings so take for granted 
that we exist (that we
t
are), that we give no thought to the actual 
nature and function of being for us human beings (unless it is to 
think about the time when we won’t be at all).  As a result, getting
clear about the fundamental and essential nature and function of 
being for human beings (as contrasted with our individual mo-
ment-to-moment way of being) will be somewhat challenging.
Being for human beings (that is, the fundamental and essen-
tial nature of being for human beings) is “being the clearing” (the
possibility, or something like, the emptiness or nothingness) in
which life, living, and self occur or 
r
show up for us.  What shows up 
in the clearing that we are is all of it, the entire “state of the world.” 
All of it, our entire “state of the world”—includes physical objects
and non-physical entities of every kind (and their properties and 
in various relationships), other people (and their properties and in


=== END OF PAGE 436 ===

=== PAGE 437 ===

 
 
 
Forum Day Four: Session Two 
423
KIPP
Right. That’s accurate terminology. Wants are part of the structure of being a human being. The
truth is: You’ve got to make people wrong in order to be right. 
DOREL
The fi rst night I left here I got lost, because I don’t live here.
KIPP
No, you got lost.
DOREL
I got lost.
KIPP
You hear the diff erence? You got lost. You just got lost.
DOREL
And I got so damn angry at my brother-in-law who was supposed to leave me with a map and
directions and everything, but he didn’t. He just called me the night before everything started.
KIPP
You were lost and angry. Before you were just lost. Now you got lost and angry. A stupid person, 
right?
DOREL (laughing)
Right.
KIPP
You could have just been lost.
(laughter)r
Except you had to screw it up and put anger in there. 
DOREL
That’s right. And in a way I enjoy that.
KIPP
It’s familiar. Kick the walls. Spit on the fl oor. Exactly.
DOREL
The following night I had to get mad at the parking lot attendant.
various relationships), and we ourselves (and our properties and in
various relationships), along with the spatiality of here and there,
and the temporality of the past, the present, and the future. 
The “ourselves” that shows up in the clearing that we are, is
that to which we refer when we say “I” or “me”—that is, our partic-
ular way of being in this or that moment, or our sense of ourselves 
(our identity or persona).  You can confirm this by noticing that you
(as the clearing you are) are capable of being aware of yourself as
whatever it is that you are referring to when you say “I” or “me,” 
and the at-the-moment way of being of that “I” or “me.”  In other 
words, what you refer to when you say “I” or “me” shows up for 
you in the clearing that you fundamentally and essentially are.
We note here that a drawback with the phrase the clearing 
that we are is that it seems to imply subjectivity, and it is definitely 
not meant in that way.  We will clarify and fully develop this during 
t
the in-class sessions of the course.
Saying all this in other words:  Being for human beings (the 
fundamental and essential nature of being for human beings)
is always and only, as philosopher Martin Heidegger so brilliantly
nailed it, “being in the world” (Being and Time). While we 
generally think of being as something located “in here,” if you 
take a careful look you will see that you are always being with
something or being about something, that is, always being in
t
the world (even if the part of the world you are being with is that 
thing you refer to when you say “I” or “me” or the way of being
of “I” or “me”).
You can confirm for yourself that being for you is being in the 
world, that you are so to speak a clearing for it all, in that when you 
are conscious, you are always conscious of something or conscious
about something (even if what you are conscious of in a given mo-
ment is being conscious).  In other words, for human beings what
it is to be is for the world, all of it (our entire “state of the world”) to 
show up (to occur).
Our moment to moment way of being is not the fundamental 
t
and essential nature of being for us human beings.  When we are 
being the clearing for life to show up, and our “I” or “me” self is


=== END OF PAGE 437 ===

